INTRODUCTION

An Event Map is an association of the events happening in the world to their location of occurence. For example, if we mark the locations of road accidents across India, what we will get is a special event map known as 'Crash Map'. If we mark the locations of all the crimes on the map, then we get another event map which we call as the 'Crime Map'.

Event maps have a wide variety of applications. Such visual descriptions of data prove to be very useful in drawing conclusions that are not apparant from textual data. The crash map of an area can help us identify the locations that are highly prone to accidents. With the knowledge of the location of the accidents, we will be better equiped to deal with them. For example, if the accident prone area happens to be a residential area, we may add more zebra crossing and subways to the area. On the other hand, if the area turns out to be one with blind turns, it is more effective to convert the roads to one-way traffic.

The crime map can help us identify the areas that are more prone to crimes. We then may deploy more cops and enhance patrolling in the area to keep the crimes under check. The event map of disease spreading can give us insights of the healthcare scenario in different regions. It will allow us to track the spread of different diseases and identifying the area of origin of a disease will also indicate the possible causes of a given disease. Pollution turns out to be major health issue these days. However, we still lack concrete facts regarding the contribution of different sources of pollution. An event map of respiratory abnormalities and air quality index of different locations can answer the above question. Also, if the area affected majorly turn out to be industrial area, we can conclude that industries are the major cause. If it turns out to be roads and highways, we can conclude the traffic to be the principal cause of pollution.

So locational intelligence empowers us to analyse and take targeted measures to improve the situation in that particular area. The question that arises is that why are the available maps and data not sufficient to serve the cause. This is because most of the data that we have is in the form of text which is difficult to analyse without visual depictions. Moreover, the available maps provide data for city/state wide areas which fails at getting targetted information for the forementioned purposes. Also, the organised data is somewhat outdated and loses relevence with its age. The recent data is rather unorganised and hence cannot be operated upon directly.

The essence of our project is to capture this need to collect and organise real time feed of data and come up with event maps for various utilities.


OBJECTIVE

Our aim is develop a tool that utilises the live sources of data such as newspapers and twitter feeds to generate event maps. We may as well use news archives of the recent past and other such less recent sources of data to increase the volume of data available. Next, we will apply Natural Language Processing tools to infer the data collected and organise it appropriately. After that we will apply machine learning tools to classify the data according to the nature of event map desired. This will depend on what kind of events do we want to get an event map for. Finally we will depict the results visually using visualisation tools such as CartoDB.