According to the police, Sayyed Sadaq Chandpasha Sayyed (18) of Karnataka worked as a cleaner on a truck headed for Mumbai from Pune.
Shortly after crossing the tunnel, the truck’s fan-belt snapped, forcing the driver to pull over.
Sayed got out and was inspecting the truck from the front, when another truck, also headed for Mumbai, crashed into the stationary truck.
Sayyed was found under the truck’s front tyre.This was the third fatal accident this month on the expressway.
Police said that the youth was the son of Sagar-based corporator Sandhya Singhai and had come to Indore six months ago for a job after completing civil engineering.
He was rushed to the hospital by the locals on an ambulance, where he died during treatment four hours later.He took a turn towards Palasia, when he was hit by a speeding four-wheeler at Indraprasth Square.
The impact of the accident was such that the youth was thrown off his bike and received serious injuries on his head.He was rushed to the hospital by the locals present on the spot and his family members were informed about the incident but he succumbed during treatment at the hospital some time later. 
Doctors claimed that he had lost a lot of blood. 
Police registered a case in the matter and were looking at CCTV footage of the area to ascertain the identity of the accused and the car number. 
The accused will be arrested at the earliest, said investigating officer at Tukoganj police station Pratibha Tomar.
He took a turn towards Palasia, when he was hit by a speeding four-wheeler at Indraprasth Square. 
The impact of the accident was such that the youth was thrown off his bike and received serious injuries on his head.He was rushed to the hospital by the locals present on the spot and his family members were informed about the incident but he succumbed during treatment at the hospital some time later. 
Doctors claimed that he had lost a lot of blood. 
Police registered a case in the matter and were looking at CCTV footage of the area to ascertain the identity of the accused and the car number. 
The accused will be arrested at the earliest, said investigating officer at Tukoganj police station Pratibha Tomar. 
Madan Singh was on his way to a factory in Narsingpur village, where he worked, along with his nephew Nitesh Singh, 21. 
The two had reached the fish market in Khandsa Road, when a truck came from behind and hit Madan. 
Nitesh told police that after hitting Madan, the truck did not stop and one of its wheels ran over Madan. 
Nitesh took Madan to General Hospital in Civil Lines, from where he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital. 
He died during treatment.
An FIR was registered at the Kherki Dhaula police station on Saturday under section 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC. 
A case of death due to negligence has been filed against the officials of electricity department. 
The groom was getting married to one Ramcharan’s granddaughter,” Sharma said.
As the van, a Tata 407, hit a low-hanging high-tension wire, the driver tried to speed away, said the residents. 
This led to uprooting of the electricity pole and the live wire fell on revelers on the truck. Due to the loud music, the truck driver did not notice the falling of live wire, eyewitnesses recalled. 
The high-tension wire injured five persons.
Following the accident, locals immediately informed the electricity department and the power supply was snapped. 
Santosh, a reveler, died on the spot, while four other members of the DJ band – Sheelu (28), Mohit (19), Sukhveer (35) and Nandu (40) – were rushed to Kailash Hospital in Jewar. 
Mohit and Nandu were later rushed to a hospital in Delhi where Nandu expired on the way.Residents claimed the height of the wire was below the prescribed standard of 5.8 metre. 
However, Mahendra Pal Sharma, engineer, electricity department, Jewar denied the claim saying that the prescribed standards were followed.After the accident, a team of officials from the electricity department also reached the spot for repairs.
Dr Ashi Attri, resident medical officer, Kailash Hospital, Jewar, said that Santosh, a resident of Faridabad, was brought dead in hospital.
Mohit and Nandu received serious burn injuries. We referred them to a Delhi hospital where Nandu died on the way. 
Mohit is being treated at Kailash Hospital, Noida as Delhi hospital did not admit him due to unavailability of bed,” she said. 
Sheelu is undergoing treatment in ICU, while Sukhveer was later shifted to general ward after his condition improved.
Speaking to TOI, Sukhveer recalled the accident. 
There was loud music and a number of people in the truck. I was in the front. 
Suddenly the electricity pole got uprooted and wire fell on us. I got electrocuted and fainted. 
I do not know what happened after that. 
When I gained consciousness, I found myself on the hospital bed,” he said. 
He received burn injuries on his right leg and shoulder.
Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh also reached the accident spot on Sunday and interacted with locals. 
The Jewar police initially had not registered an FIR in the case saying they had not got any written complaint, locals said. 
However, Jewar MLA directed police to register a case and investigate the matter. 
Singh met the injured victims in the hospital and assured help.I am trying to meet the kin of deceased to extend all possible help. 
It seems the incident took place due to negligence of electricity department officials. 
They must be held responsible for the deaths,” he said.
Based on the complaints of a local, Ram Gopal, an FIR for negligent conduct with respect to machinery, causing grievous hurt, and death due to negligence was registered on Sunday under sections 287, 338 and 304 (A) of IPC against unnamed officials of electricity department. 
Police said passersby were shocked at the sight of the car falling off an elevated road and onto a busy carriageway but quickly recovered their wits and hurried to the aid of the vehicle’s occupants.
They took Shithiq Rithviya, who complained of chest pain, and the four others, including three of her relatives, in the vehicle to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. 
Doctors there said Rithviya died at 8pm of a heart attack she suffered in the accident.
The four others are receiving treatment. 
Doctors described their condition as stable.
A police officer identified the injured occupants of the cab as Mohammad Ashad, 34, Mohammad Ajmal, 30, Nazeema Nazad Ajmal, 24, and the taxi driver, Mutheeshwaran, 32.Police said a private cab company owned the taxi.
The woman and three men in the cab were members of a family from Colombo who had been staying in Mannadi since they arrived in the city,” the officer said.
The car driver was taking the four passengers back to Mannadi, after they finished shopping, when the accident took place at 4.20pm.
The front tyre of the car was flat and, as the driver approached a bend in the road near the subway, he lost control of the vehicle,” he said. 
The car rammed the parapet along the top of the subway wall, broke through and fell on the road below.
Sharath Kumar, a witness who was riding past on a motorcycle, said the occupants of the cab were lucky that it didn’t turn turtle and land on the subway on its roof.
I joined other passersby and helped the injured people out of the vehicle and took them to the hospital,” he said.The police said some of the youths were possibly drunk. 
All the occupants of the SUV sustained injuries.
A police officer said the car was zipping when Parag Shirke (31) lost control of the wheel and collided with the truck being driven by a Dongri resident, Munzir Khan (25).
The other occupants of the SUV have been identified as the birthday boy Ajay Jadhav, Mangesh Sawant (37), Siddesh Kadam (21), Ritik Kamekar (17), Ketan Rasem (23), Pratamesh Kadam (22), Vijay Jadhav (29), Harshat Jadhav (26), Ashish Sawant (32) and Megan Parep (25). 
All were taken to the nearby Sion hospital. Shirke, Sawant and Khan sustained fractures.
Senior police inspector Balasaheb Kakkad said, The car was speeding. We have found a 50-ft tyre track mark on the road. 
Also, a beer bottle was found in the car. Another officer said blood samples of all youths have been collected. 
A rash driving case has been registered. The 43-year-old Padappai resident, police said, usually rode from his house to the Tambaram railway station and took an EMU train to work. 
Ravichandran, who was wearing a helmet, was flung violently off the vehicle. 
His helmet came off and he suffered severe injuries to the head. 
Some employees of the company travelling in the bus took him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. 
He is survided by his wife and daughter. 
The bus driver, 40-year-old Madurantakam resident Ashokan, later surrendered at the Otteri police station near Vandalur.
Police have ruled out any foul play in the death of Ravichandran. 
It is a clear accident. A court will remand the driver for his negligent driving,said a police officer. 
The accident happened when students and staff of Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan were returning in a mini bus after attending an awards function on heritage conservation at a neighbouring hotel. 
Eyewitnesses said the driver of the bus lost control while zipping through the road.Many people sitting on the parapet wall on the beach were injured when the bus hit them. Students inside the vehicle were also hurt.
The accident brought traffic to a standstill for 30 minutes.City police commissioner T Yoganand visited the spot and said a man lost both his legs and succumbed to injuries. 
We have lodged a case and investigation is on to ascertain the cause of tragedy,he told TOI. 
In yet another celebratory firing, a youth was killed with a stray bullet on Monday late night in Firozabad. 
Identified as Sonu Singh, the 22-year-old youth of Morena district in Madhya Pradesh had come to attend the engagement ceremony of his cousin brother Umesh Singh in Gardenpul village of Nagla Singhi police jurisdiction.
According to police, the victim suffered a thigh injury and died on his way to the hospital due to excessive bleeding.
Anil Kumar station officer of Nagla Singhi said, It was an unfortunate incident.
The youth himself was supposed to get married on May 15, but succumbed to bullet injury.
An FIR has been lodged against the bride’s relative, identified as Brij Lal, who fired the shot during celebration from his licensed weapon. 
The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder),” he said. 
On Saturday in celebratory firing, an eight–year-old boy was killed in Ganjdundwara area of Kasganj, while 22-year-old youth was injured with bullet pellet in Uttar police jurisdiction of Firozabad district.
Speaking to TOI, deputy inspector general of police for Agra range Mahesh Kumar Mishra said, We have already instructed the station officers of all the police station to arrest the accused in minimum possible time and impound the weapon. 
Strict measures are being taken to ensure zero celebratory firing. 
In majority of the cases, the accused are found to be using country-made weapons.
In last 13 months, 10 casualties have been reported in celebratory firing from Agra zone (which includes eight districts).
In 2013, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court ordered that no fresh arms licenses will be issued in the state.
The court, however, said such license could be issued in exceptional cases only to applicants seeking it under family heirloom policy or those who are victims of crime and have a genuine need for weapons in the opinion of the district magistrate.
The court had observed that the state has a 2.13 lakh-strong police force which has 2.25 lakh weapons with it, whereas the state had issued 11.23 lakh arms licenses. 
The deceased Kadar Kuldunkar (43), was a resident of Trombay and was riding pillion with his friend Shahul Ahmad. 
Ahmad, too, sustained minor injuries, but he panicked after seeing his friend fatally injured and sped away, informed the Vashi police. 
The bus was taking tribal men and women from Kapura village near Vyara to Dediapada in Narmada district for the rally of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. 
The Congress proposes to hold a few warm-up campaigns before the launch of electioneering for the assembly polls in the state and this was one of them.
It was a mini bus and it turned on its side. 
One woman is hospitalized and 29 others escaped with minor injuries,” said H M Chauhan, police sub-inspector, Mandvi police station.
Those injured were farmers and labourers. 
Ramila Gamit was operated upon for a fracture in the hospital, police said. 
The deceased is Pandyan,36, a resident of M G Road, Bengaluru.
Police said the two cars, one coming from Goa to Udupi, another from Mangaluru to Byndoor collided head on near Maravanthe. 
The injured have been admitted to KMC Hospital in Manipal and Chinmayi Hospital in Kundapur.  
A case has been registered at Gangolli police station.
The deceased, identified as Class XII student Rajbir Sharma, was coming from Dadri in a jam-packed government bus. 
Police said the bus was moving when the victim tried to get off near the bus stand of his village.
The driver of the bus was trying to avoid stopping due to a huge crowd of students waiting at the bus stand. 
When Rajbir tried to get off from the front door, he fell down and got crushed under the rear tyres of the bus, police said.
Angry over the incidents, students blocked the Dadri-Delhi road and asked village residents to join them. 
The protesters’ group swelled and torched the bus standing nearby amid slogans demanding arrest of the driver.
Meanwhile, the scribes present on the spot were also manhandled and their cameras snatched.
Chaotic scenes continued on Dadri-Delhi road for about three hours till Charkhi Dadri SP Sunil Dalal and Haryana Roadways workshop manager Raj Singh Ahlawat reached the spot and assured the villagers of registering a case against bus driver for negligent driving.
Protesters alleged that the driver deliberately did not stop the bus at the designated village bus stand, which ultimately caused the death of student. 
Police took the possession of the body after the protesters retreated from the spot and shifted it to the Dadri civil hospital for postmortem.
SP Dalal said police had registered for rioting, assault, causing mischief due to fire and obstructing the road against 50 persons, including 15 named. 
Mutheeswaran, a resident of Poonamallee, tried to cancel the trip at first but the family requested him to drop them at Mannadi. 
While a woman, Siddique Rithviya, 54, died of heart attack a couple of hours after the accident, the other three members sustained injuries. 
The cabbie fracture one of his leg and injured his head and hip.
I could see my vehicle flying in the air and the passengers crying for help, but I was helpless. 
I could only ensure that my vehicle didn't turn upside down,said Mutheeswaran who is undergoing treatment at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. 
He has been an accident free driver and has been driving cab for more than nine years. I always ensured that my passengers are safe. I couldn't come out of the trauma where I saw one of my passenger dying of heart attack in front of my eyes, he said.He also recalled how the family did not blame him for the accident. They helped him get admitted to hospital. Mutheeswaran, a father of two, is the sole bread earner of family. Due to the impact, Prathap, 36, a farmer from Basavataraka village in Karnataka, died on the spot and A Krishna, 35, a farmer from Kurmidda village in Yacharam, suffered critical injuries.When the mishap occurred, Prathap was standing on the road-side talking to his friend and Krishna was sitting on the bike (AP 29 BL 4173).Due to the high-speed collision, the bike and Krishan were flung into the air for about 20 feet and crashed on the road 10 feet away. Prathap was flung about 15 feet away on the roadside and he died on the spot, Maheswaram sub-inspector (SI) Bharat Naidu said.Krishna suffered critical injuries and he is coma. After hitting the victims, the Fortuner vehicle crashed into a roadside-signboard pole and turned turtle.There were three persons, including the driver, in the Fortuner vehicle. They all escaped with minor injuries. The driver was not drunk and the accident occurred due to overspeeding, the SI said. A case was registered against Ratna Kumar under sections 304-A and 337 of the IPC. He was arrested. Sources said that while the car driver killed in the accident was from Chamba district, others were from Tikkri panchayat of Nerwa. After receiving the information of accident, local people along with police launched the rescue operation as all six occupants of car had died on the spot, rescue team could only brought their bodies out of gorge.Those killed in the accident have been identified as Balwant (42) of Bajah, Bansi Lal (36) and Kanwar Pal (35) of Chenjan, Surat Singh (46) of Janog and Mohar Singh (36) of Chehad. Body of car driver was not identified till the filing of this report.Police officials said that a case has been registered to know about the reasons behind this accident and all bodies have been sent for the postmortem. A four-year-old girl, maimed for life in a road mishap involving a truck, was recently awarded around Rs 6 lakh compensation by the Thane Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT).MACT member R N Bawankar told the truck owner to compensate Darshika Patil, a resident of Khambale in Bhiwandi, upholding the claim that the mishap was due to the rash and negligent driver.Patil, represented by her father, submitted through their counsel, that at 5.40pm on March 23, 2008, she was going to a medical store, when the speeding truck proceeding from the Padgha side to Wada knocked her down and ran over her right foot. She was taken to a private hospital in Bhiwandi and thereafter admitted to KEM Hospital, Mumbai. She was also operated thrice and plastic surgery was done, the court was told.The matter was decided ex parte against the truck owner was not present. The judge pointed out that the panchanama showed that the vehicle knocked down the girl from its left. “It means the applicant almost crossed 90% portion of the vehicle. Thus, it clearly shows the negligence and rashness on the part of the truck driver. However, the insurer failed to examine the driver. The accident was not denied by the insurance company, the judge said.The FIR showed police registered an offence against the driver of on the basis of investigations, and it was clear that the accident was due to the driver’s negligence, the judge added.The medical team calculated and certified the physical impairment to 41%, which showed that the disability was not likely to improve and she would have it all her life.After scrutinizing medical papers and all documents, the compensation was finalized by the tribunal at Rs 5.65 lakh. The judge directed the truck owner, Satvindersingh Multani of Nagpur, and the insurance company to make the payment jointly, along with 7% interest per annum from August 2008.  The injured have been identified as cab driver Bijender Sharma (32), security guard Abhimanyu (30) and three techies — Sunil (25), Riya (23) and Urvashi (21). The cab, an Innova, was heading towards Faridabad from Sector 18, where the company is located, to drop the employees home. A speeding truck coming from the opposite side rammed into the Innova head-on. The collision was so severe that all five in the cab got trapped inside. Hearing the loud bang, passersby rushed to help the injured, while the truck driver fled, leaving the truck on the spot. A PCR call was immediately made. After cops reached the spot, they took the injured to a nearby private hospital. Two of them were discharged after first aid, while three others were admitted for treatment. Doctors confirmed they are now out of danger. Based on Sharma’s statement, an FIR was registered against the accused, under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 427 (causing damage) of the IPC at DLF 1 police station. “The truck was being driven on the wrong side of the road, and hit the cab head-on. We have taken the truck in custody and are trying to identify the accused, said ASI Amit Kumar, the investigating officer. Om Prakash, who is a tailor working in the Sadar Bazaar area, died on spot. The biker identified as Bahadur Singh, died on his way to the hospital. The truck driver managed to flee the spot with his vehicle. Police lodged FIRs in both the cases, but are yet to identify the accused and the vehicles. The bus, which had 32 people, flipped under the impact of the collision. The bus (UK 7 PA 2861) was en route to Delhi from Kathgodam and the truck (UP 16 DP 1807) was on its way to Alipur in Delhi from Chhapraula in GB Nagar.The victim, identified as Ramdhari Mittal (72), suffered grievous head injuries when his skull smashed against the window pane of the bus under the impact of the collision. His left leg was also broken and he lost a lot of blood. “The lone victim in the crash was travelling alone and was returning to his home in Dilshad Garden after attending a wedding. He had boarded the bus from somewhere close to Muradabad. His family members were all really worried for him. He was rushed to the District Combined Hospital in Sanjay Nagar and but succumbed to his injuries on the way, said Shivraj Singh, investigating officer, Kavi Nagar police station.The truck driver, Pradeep Kumar (30), fled the spot after the collision. The police have summoned the employer and the owner of the transport company for interrogation. The bus driver, Hosjhiyar Singh (42), a resident of Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, filed an FIR against the truck driver at the Kavi Nagar police station. The possibility of both or either of the drivers being intoxicated has been ruled out by the police.According to the police, both the bus and the truck drivers were driving at a high speed. As soon as they reached the Hapur Chungi intersection, the truck driver while trying to slide towards the left of the bus, rammed into it, following which the bus slid for some distance and fell over a small metal roundabout of the intersection leaving it completely mangled. The bus, owned by a contractor who requested anonymity, providing service for Mayoor School, Noida Sector 126, was allegedly not on duty at the time of the accident. The driver was identified as Sanjay, who fled the spot. Manish Kumar (35), a havildar in the Indian Army, said that he, along with his parents Jairam Rana (65), Rani Rana (60), wife Suman (30), two sons Arnab (2) and Aryab (1), were going from Faridabad to Shimla in their red Tata Zest. Kumar was driving, while his wife and children were sitting next to him and his parents were sitting in the back seat.Kumar said, “I was waiting at the traffic signal near Sector 15 when a speeding school bus rammed against our car. The collision was severe and my parents sitting at the back fell down from their seat and received head injuries, he said.The injured were taken to Kailash Hospital. Kumar’s mother received stitches on the head, while his father was discharged after primary treatment. A police team reached the spot and both the vehicles were taken to the police station.Initially a case of rash driving was registered and the driver was detained but later Kumar’s family withdrew the case, saying they did not wish to get into any legal hassle.“We gave a compensation amount for the car repair and medical treatment, said the contractor.“The bus was not on school duty when the incident took place, clarified Sarita Madhok, principal, Mayoor Schools. Police sources said that the group was on way to Poglu village carrying the flame of goddess Gaytrima which they had bought from Shyamlaji. Two persons died on the spot while one succumbed during treatment at a private hospital near Gandhinagar. The deceased were identified as Vijay Patel (23), Hardik Patel (24) and Shanta Patel (59), all residents of Poglu.Six other injured have been admitted to the civil hospital in Himmatnagar, said T B Rathod, police inspector, Prantij The flame that they were carrying was to be placed at Umiya Mata’s newly-built temple in the Poglu on May 8. Sam takes revenge from Anjali by airing the footage of her slapping the director on news channels. This makes Anjali upset and she calls for a press conference. When Vikram asks her to come for Aarav's engagement ceremony, she refuses to go. At the press conference, Anjali tells everyone how the director tried to misbehave with her and that he is just a pawn. It is Sam who is the main culprit. On hearing this, Sam is furious at Anjali, but Lily tries to calm him down.   While the engagement ceremony is on, Roshni receives a call from someone informing her that Sumit has met with an accident. She is shocked and informs everyone. Just when they are about to rush to the hospital, Piyush enters. Simar asks him where he had gone. He cooks up an excuse and tells her that they should all go to see Sumit. At the hospital, doctors declare Sumit's condition to be very critical. Some villagers come there and begin to describe the beast-man they had seen in front of Sumit's car and point out at Piyush. A gang of burglars about to flee after looting a Patanjali store in Sarai Rohilla was busted in a dramatic fashion by personnel of a PCR van. The incident occurred on Saturday when policemen on patrol on Rohtak Road spotted a vehicle near a store. They got suspicious and raised an alarm. At this, five or six men ran out of the shop, boarded the Maruti Esteem and tried to drive off. Police suspected that they were up to something fishy. “Seeing that they were surrounded, the youths got off and tried to run off. One of them was overpowered while the rest managed to scoot, said DCP (PCR) Monika Bhardwaj. The arrested man was identified as Vinit, a resident of Shahbad Dairy. Police recovered a watch, a cellphone, two bags of cigarettes and Rs 4,500 cash. On interrogation, Vinit said he and his gang had stolen these items from another shop prior to this burglary. An iron rod used by the burglars to break open the shutter of the shop was also seized from the car. The car was stolen from Sultanpuri, Vinit said. The PCR staff then informed Sarai Rohilla police station and handed the burglar to them. “The entire incident was captured by a CCTV camera installed in an adjoining shop. The footage went viral on social media, and the police action was appreciated by the public. The PCR personnel have been recommended for awards, Bhardwaj said. A case of trespassing was registered. As soon as he stopped, a silver Santro car rammed the bicycle, flinging the family onto the other side of the median. Police say all three sustained fatal head injuries. The car's driver was later arrested, but released on bail. The car's numberplate fell at the spot, which helped cops trace the driver. The eyewitnesses collected parts of the car which had broken off, including its numberplate, from the accident spot and handed them over to police. CCTV footage from the area was also scanned and the car's driver, Shiv Kumar, was arrested from his house. His car was seized by the cops.Sajeevan's wife Sundara was riding pillion on the bicycle and her son, Mukesh, on the rod in front of his father's seat. “I was riding my bicycle behind them when I suddenly saw them flung to the other side of the road, their heads hitting the road. The car's driver could not be caught as he was driving at a very high speed. Even though a few passers-by chased him, he fled,“ said Sharda Prashad, Sundara's elder brother who lives in the house adjacent to the family .“We rushed all three to a hospital nearby, but the boy died on the way. His parents were referred to Lok Nayak Hospital, but they succumbed to their injuries a day later. Sajeevan died at 5am and Sundara died at 3pm,“ said Prashad.“Their daughter Ridhi is too young to understand what is happening at our house these days. She was so used to staying next to her parents and brother at all times that ever since the incident took place, she has not stopped crying. It's even difficult to feed her as she's used to her mother feeding her. I wonder what the future holds for her,“ the grieving man told TOI.The family lived at a rented flat in Narela's Pocket A and were natives of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. Family members said that their bodies have been sent to their village. Prashad said that he will take custody of Ridhi.“A case of causing death due to negligence and rash and negligent driving was registered at Narela police station,“ said Rishi Pal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). The driver, who has confessed, was arrested but later released on bail, the officer said.  According to police, the cab was being driven on the wrong side of the road to avoid a traffic jam.  The boy had received multiple injuries on his head. He had suffered a skull fracture that led to haemorrhage. This had affected his brain functioning. He was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit, said a doctor working at Artemis Hospital on condition of anonymity. Vatsal's uncle Gulshan, who's children were also present in the same cab, lodged a complaint against the cab driver, Veyant, and alleged that Vatsal had to die because of his callous behaviour. Vatsal, my brother's son, lost his life for Veyant's negligence. My children were also injured in the accident but are now out of danger. Veyant should be arrested at the earliest and given stringent punishment, Gulshan said. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC has been registered against Veyant, who is absconding. Actor Vikram Chatterjee’s fans are a worried lot: they are not only distressed about his health but also apparently concerned about the fate of his character in the popular serial, ‘Ichche Nodi’, not sure if Anurag, as the protagonist is called, would be removed from the story altogether. Rumours had been doing the rounds that the serial would “send Vikram’s ‘Anurag’ abroad. “No, that can’t be done. We have just shown Anurag return from the US. How can he go abroad again? We are thinking on other lines, said creative director and scriptwriter of the serial, Leena Gangopadhyay. Some viewers thought the character would die. “That is because what happened in ‘Jol Nupur’. When actors Ronnie Chakraborty and Pijush Ganguly died, they were both in the same serial, and we showed the characters, too, died But we can’t do that here. With so much of media coverage, people know what’s happened to Vikram, Gangopadhyay said.In fact, she reportedly planned to link events from Vikram’s real life to the screenplay. “In the script, someone would break the news that Anurag had had an accident. While the car was found, he was untraceable, she said. Dialogues were being written to build the anxiety over searching Anurag. So, will the crash be shown on Rashbehari Avenue? “No, we are showing the accident on Durgapur Expressway, she said.In fact, two days after his accident, Vikram himself had apparently spoken to Gangopadhyay, expressing his apprehension if he would be able to ever work again. The question rose because he was aware of the problem of episode-banking that serial-makers faced. He knew that if an episode was not ready, there could not be a repeat telecast of an earlier episode. Unlike in other industries—where someone else could replace the person concerned in an emergency to fill in the blank—a “temporary stand-in could not take on an actor’s role. So, even Gangopadhyay hoped once Vikram recovered from the trauma of the crash, he would be able to face the camera again. Fortunately, Gangopadhyay said, ‘Icche Nodi’ had a bank of seven episodes, though usually, it was restricted to merely two. So, the serial could run for seven days till next Friday before they might face any problems, she added.  Police were informed about the accident by an eyewitness, Jalpu Ram of Irra village of Chopal subdivision and, based on his complaint, a case registered of rash driving and causing death by negligence. He said the car went off the road and fell into the gorge, killing all six occupants on the spot.Those killed in the accident have been identified as Surat Singh (40) of Vamthi village of Chopal area, Banshi Lal (36) of Chainjan village, Balwant Singh (35) of Bajah village, Kanwar Singh (45) of Chainjan village, Mahar Singh (54) of Chour village and car driver Om Prakash (26) of Dind village in Saluni tehsil of Chamba district.This was the second major accident in Nerwa area. On April 19 this year, 44 people were killed when a private bus from Uttarakhand fell into the Tons near Gumma. The ill-fated private bus (UK-16PA-0045) was coming from Vikasnagar in Uttarakhand and going to Kerar (Tiuni) in Shimla district, when the driver lost control of the wheel near Gumma. The bus skidded off the road and plunged 250 meters downhill into the Tons. The accident happened when a truck carrying wooden logs was hit by the speeding car. The wooden logs fell on the Innova car killing all the seven passengers on the spot.So far, the deceased who have been identified are Madhu and Praveen of Magadi, Sridhar from Bengaluru, Raghavendra of Shikaripur, Manjunath of Chorady. They were going to attend a wedding party in Sagar on Thursday.Source - Vijay Karnataka. Police said the youth, in their 20s, were coming from Haridwar when the accident happened. The dead have been identified as Sumit, Vaibhav and Sajan while the fourth, Charan, has suffered serious injuries.“Around 6pm, a Swift Dzire, which was being driven at a high speed, suddenly lost balance and after breaching the divider, collided with a chartered bus coming from the opposite direction  said Anil Kumar, circle officer (Sadar). “There were four occupants in the car, all youths in their twenties out of which three died on the spot while one was taken to GTB Hospital in a critical condition added Kumar.  The truck driver took a sudden left turn, hitting the front portion of the tractor. The engine fell on Devaraj, killing him on the spot. Devaraj had suffered multiple injuries in the accident, according to police. have booked a case. The victim Shiren, an employee of a hotel in Madhapur, was hit by the tanker when it was taking a U-turn. A case was registered against the driver under 304 a (rash and negligent driving causing death) of IPC. In an another incident, a motorist died after he was hit by a lorry at Kothur, on the suburbs of Cyberabad. The motorist Goraymiya, of Shadnagar, died on the spot.  the truck, carrying a wedding party, was returning from Sakrauli in Jalesar area of Etah district. All passengers were from Nagaria Paudran village, Dauki, in Agra district. The victims were returning from a ring engagement ceremony. Ram Shahaye, a victim who lost four of family members including a five-year-old nephew said, We were returning home after engagement ceremony from Nan Singh Nagla village, when the truck drove into the canal. There was no divider on the road side to prevent the vehicle from falling into it. I have lost four family members and my younger brother is also missing. Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, a senior superintendent of police said “Till now 14 casualties have been confirmed and the death toll may rise. The truck broke through the roadside railing and dived into the shallow drain which had about 2 feet of water.  “Preliminary investigation indicates that the driver, who is among the deceased, might have fallen asleep while driving since there were no signs of a collision nor any vehicle in the vicinity, he said.  Several ambulances were pressed into service immediately after the accident. Rescue operation was in full swing under the supervision of Etah district magistrate Amit Kishore at the time of filing this story. The injured have been admitted to SN Hospital in Agra and the Etah district hospital. The deceased has been identified as Rekha Sindhu, daughter of Paulraj and resident of Bengaluru. She was travelling along with her friend Rahini, while Jayakumar was behind the wheels of the car. Sindhu acted in an ad film (Ad film on Chennai Amirtha Institute), said the Natrampalli Police.They were heading towards Bengaluru from Chennai.  According to police, Jayakumar fell asleep and the car hit the centre median and overturned. Sindhu who was sitting in the front seat died on the spot, while Jayakumar and Rahini sustained serious injuries and shifted to the government hospital in the vicinity. Later, they were referred to the hospital in Vellore.  The police shifted the body of Sindhu to the GH for post-mortem. A case has been registered in this regard. The deceased was identified as Paras Ghelani, 30, a resident of Marutinagar. Ghelani was a manager with a private bank in Bhaktinagar. He was returning to his house when the accident occurred. The bus crashed into his bike from behind. He collided with the railing and suffered severe head injuries. Ghelani was scheduled to get engaged this week. He was the only son of his parents. The bus driver abandoned the vehicle and ran away from the spot. A complaint was lodged against the bus driver for rash driving. A woman lost her life after being crushed between Hampi Express and the platform at Bhanapur station on Wednesday night.Kallavva Mallappa Naregal, 50, of Tondihal village in Yelburga taluk, her brother Sharanappa Arakeri and two other women were going to attend her daughter’s house-warming ceremony in Bengaluru on Friday. As three coaches of Train No. 16591 Hubballi-Bengaluru City-Mysuru Hampi Express were stationed outside Platform 2, Kallavva could not enter the coach due to the heavy rush. She was standing on the steps of the coach. When the train started, her legs were crushed by the platform and severed from her body. Though some members of the public rushed her to the district hospital in Koppal, she succumbed around1.30am Thursday.Sharanappa Arakeri said, “Three of us boarded the coach to ensure a seat for our sister. It was dark where the general coaches were stationed. When she was just one step away from entering the coach, the train started moving and her legs were crushed between steps and the platform. We tried pulling her inside but in vain. Some passengers pulled the chain and the train stopped but by then, her legs were severed. With the help of some villagers, we took her to hospital by ambulance but she died after five hours.Neelappagouda Immadigoudra, gram panchayat member, Tondihal, said it was the duty of the guard to ensure all passengers were in the coach before giving the green signal. “Maybe he couldn’t see her as there was no light outside the platform. As the train stops for only 1 minute at Bhanapur, he may have given the green signal. How can passengers climb 5-6 ft from the ground to the coach? he said.Fakirappa Mandalgeri, a resident of Bhanapur, said this was not the first such accident at this station. “As the length of the platform is shorter than the length of passenger trains like Hampi Express, 3-4 coaches are stationed beyond the platform. Though we have requested railway officials to address this issue, they have not responded, he said.Earlier incidentShankrappa Choudki, former GP member, Bhanapur, recalled that a 21-year-old girl had died some time back on Platform No. 1 at Bhanapur station. “As the general coaches were stationed on a small bridge, she entered a sleeper coach with her mother. When the TTE insisted her to get into the general coaches, she came out her coach. A tile of the platform’s border had broken and she slipped under the train and her body was crushed. As her mother did not have her ticket, she could not get any compensation from the railways. A 25-year-old passenger, Kshitij Bhaskar, who was sitting in the front was thrown off the car due to the impact of the crash. He was rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment.Another passenger, Vishwanath Pandit, 47, also died in the accident. Other passengers suffered minor injuries. The driver of the Duster, Sumangal Datta, who was allegedly speeding, was arrested, and was produced before a magistrate on Friday. He was granted bail on Friday. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A(death by negligence) at DLF Sector 29 police station. Thirty-year-old Amit, who was sitting in the auto, suffered grievous head injuries. He was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Ashish Pandey who was sitting in the front suffered a fracture in his hand. ASI Harkesh of Kherki Dhaula police station said the car driver abandoned the Chevrolet Beat, a private taxi, and fled the spot following the crash. The driver is still at large. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 337(causing hurt by endangering life and safety of others), and 304A (death by negligence) at Kherki Dhaula police station. The 50-year-old was returning to city, along with family members by road, after immersing the ashes of her younger brother Narendra Shende in Allahabad. The last rites were performed at Ambazari ghat on Friday evening. Saunsar police said the Nagpur-based family met with the accident near Raymonds factory after one of the front wheel tyre burst. The ill-fated vehicle dashed against the footpath before turning turtle which led to the injuries. Vishakha, seated in the middle seat, sustained head injuries. Vishakha’s husband Baba, too, is a former corporator and BJP leader. The other persons who were injured in the accident were Vishakha’s 13-year-old Sharbil, sister Priti Shende (42) and niece Aditi Taman (27). It is learnt that the passers-by rushed the injured to the nearby hospital and also alerted the Saunsar police. The Madhya Pradesh police registered a case of accidental death. According to an official of Saunsar police station, an offence against the driver of the vehicle is likely to be registered for causing death due to negligence. The injured have now been shifted to a city-based hospital. The cop Jeram Jogadiya (55), a resident of Vartej, was going from Sanosara village to Bhavnagar for his duty when the accident happened. Jogadiya’s son Jatin lodged a complaint against truck driver Jignesh Baraiya, a resident of Chitra area in Bhavnagar. After the accident, truck driver surrendered before Sihor police station and he was arrested. The councillor Prakash Gida (26) was returning from Virpur along with Bhaya Bhutiya. The accident came to light on Friday morning when some passersby saw the mangled SUV on the river bed beneath the bridge. Police rushed to the spot and found that Gida had died on the spot. Bhutiya was rushed to the hospital with severe injuries. While five of them died on the spot, one died on the way to Dindigul Government Hospital. Police are on the lookout for the bus driver, Raja, of Attur in Dindigul, who fled the spot after the accident. He had joined duty only on Friday after a long medical leave.  A case has been registered with the Ambathurai police and further inquiries are underway. Saeed Nizamuddin Attar, a resident of Ganj Peth, was not wearing a helmet when the mishap took place. He is being treated at a private hospital. The Wanowrie police on Friday arrested car driver Aditya Rajesh Shetty (22), resident of Magarpatta, for rash driving.Sub-inspector Shankar Jadhav, who is investigating the case, said Shetty, who was driving the car at a high speed, lost control over the vehicle and hit Saeed’s motorcycle head on while Saeed was going towards Jhambulkar chowk.Jadhav said the impact was such that Saeed was thrown in the air and fell on the other side of the road. Passersby rushed him to a nearby private hospital. Shetty, who helped in shifting Saeed to the hospital, was arrested after Saeed’s father lodged a complaint against him on Friday.Saeed’s father Nizamuddin said, “I was in Satara when the accident took place. I came to know about it when a passerby called me from Saeed’s cellphone and told me to rush to the spot. Saeed’s condition is stable and he is slowly communicating, but he doesn’t remember how the mishap took place, he added. Dadapir Sherewad, 22, and Maulali Koraggeri, 24, residents of Cunchelim and natives of Karnataka, were traveling on a motorcycle from Cunchelim to Mapusa. As they reached the Cunchelim junction, Sherewad, who was riding the bike, lost control of the vehicle and first hit a pedestrian, Mala Kambli, 38, also a resident of Cunchelim, and then went on to hit a compound wall and an electricity pole along the road. Pillion rider Koraggeri and sustained severe injuries in the impact and succumbed at the spot. The rider escaped with minor injuries while the pedestrian suffered a leg fracture, sources. Police conducted a panchanama and registered a the case as an accident. Further investigations are in progress. The crater is six feet deep and more than four feet wide on Poonamalle high road. Metro rail officials said the accident was not caused by their work as tunnelling has been completed on the stretch. It is suspected that it could have been caused by water leak from metro water pipeline. However, metro rail officials and metro water officials are at the spot assessing the reason for the cave in. The accident has hit traffic towards Anna Nagar, Koyambedu and towards Central on the arterial road.The spot has been cordoned off. Utsav Bhasin, accused of mowing down two people while driving a BMW at high speed, has been granted relief from a sessions court on Friday, which acquitted him of the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.However, the court convicted him for a lesser charge of causing death by rash and negligent driving. Bhasin, son of a Haryana-based businessman had been slapped with a harsher charge of culpable homicide along with rash and negligent driving after he was involved in a hit-and-run case in south Delhi in 2008.Additional sessions judge Sanjeev Kumar convicted Bhasin under IPC Sections 304-A (causing death by rash and negligent act), 279 (driving rashly which could endanger human life) and 338 (causing grievous hurt).Even as the prosecution pressed for conviction under Section 304 IPC (culpable homicide) the court acquitted him saying there was lack of evidence to prosecute Bhasin on harsher charges.ASJ Kumar also noted that the witnesses did not support prosecution’s charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, for which a person can be jailed for a minimum 10 years or maximum for life.Under the Sections in which Bhasin has been convicted (304A and 338 of IPC), he could face maximum imprisonment for two years or a fine. After convicting Bhasin, the court fixed May 26 to hear arguments on quantum of sentence and has also asked the police to file a report on the economic condition of the victim’s family to decide the compensation.The court has further asked the brother and the father of the victim to remain present on the next date of hearing. It also asked Srivastava to appear before the court on the next hearing on sentencing.  They were taken to New Civil Hospital (NCH) where one succumbed to his injuries.Amrut Lakshman Gavit, 40, died during treatment while Laganiya Gavit, 50, is currently under treatment but in a critical condition.  Both the labourers were natives of Navapur in Nandurbar in Maharashtra and were engaged for levelling work of the cricket pitch. They had completed their work and chose to sleep in the ground itself when the accident happened. The truck driver did not notice the two persons while reversing the vehicle. In another accident, a 52-year-old labourer died after falling from eighth floor of an under construction textile market building under the limits of Salabatpura police station on Saturday. Rajkishore Mahato was a native of Uttar Pradesh. He lived at the construction site of Millenium 2. A Division traffic police station have registered a complaint against the car driver for the accident. Police investigators said Jainesh Shah, a resident of New CG Road, Chandkheda, has filed a complaint against a car driver, later identified as Gaurav Sharma, 26, a resident of Manekbaug, Nehrunagar for rash driving, causing hurt, endangering life or personal safety and causing damage. Sharma, who runs a management firm, was going from Pakwan Crossroads to Thaltej Crossroads when he lost control over the vehicle. The speeding car jumped into oncoming traffic and hit the two-wheelers. Sharma was also hurt in the accident and has been hospitalized, said a police investigator.The seven persons injured, who were shifted to the Sola Civil Hospital, were Manthan Rathod, 25, Gaurav Sharma, 26, Jainesh Shah, 23, Harshvardhan Raval, 27, Bhupesh Sharma, 27, Ishwar Suthar, 25, and Vikas Suthar, 21. Investigators said Raval, who has been shifted to a private hospital afterwards, is the worst off. A few victims had also got OPD treatment at Sola Civil Hospital. Including Sharma, the accused, seven were injured said an investigator. She succumbed to injuries on way to the hospital. The victim, Payal Bairwa, had come to attend a wedding near Bassi's Sambhariya village. She was crossing the road along with her father Sharavan, when a speeding pick-up, transporting DJ equipment for the same wedding function, ran over her. The girl sustained severe head injuries and was profusely bleeding, said Bhadur Singh, SHO, Shivdaspura police station, adding that an ambulance was called in to rush her to the hospital.The guests who had come to attend the wedding celebrations tried to rescue the girl. The doctors checked her heart rate and declared her brought dead. Her father was holding her in his arms when they arrived at the hospital. When the doctors broke the news of Payal's demise, he fainted, the police official who accompanied Sharavan at the hospital told TOI.The police said that a case will be registered against the accused. All efforts will be made to nab the driver of the vehicle who fled from the spot amid commotion, Singh told TOI, adding that the girl's body would be handed over to the family after autopsy. The deceased were identified as tanker driver Eknath Vishwanath Bachate (37), Ankush Raja Pandit (14) and Raju Vishwanath Pandit (33), all from Parbhani in Beed district.The injured were truck driver Saifan Shaikh (23), Indu Raju Pandit (35), Kanta Ujghar (45) and Meghnath Hanvate (36), all from Parbhani .Sub-inspector Ramchandra Chaudhari from Loni Kalbhor police station told TOI,“Shaikh had parked the truck along the road following a puncture in the front tyre. He was examining the tyre along with his brother, Mahesh Shaikh, when the tanker rammed the truck.“Chaudhari said,“Bachate and Ankush died on the spot. Pandit succumbed to injuries at a private hospital. Shaikh sustained injuries while his brother Mahesh escaped unhurt as he jumped to the other side of the road.“Milind Memane, president of Kasturi Pratisthan, a social service organization, rushed the injured to a private hospital in Loni Kalbhor after receiving calls from local residents.Both the vehicles were headed to Pune from Yavat.The accident threw vehicular traffic out of gear for quite some time. Police cleared the traffic and towed the damaged vehicles away .Inspector Bandopant Kondubehri, in charge of Loni Kalbhor Police Station, said, “The accident occurred as the truck driver did not switch on the rear red lights of the vehicle or place stones around the truck to alert other vehicles.“He said the tanker rammed into the truck because he could not see the parked vehicle.Police have booked the truck driver under the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act. The victim, Bhupesh, was taken out from the water later at night with the help of divers. While the crane blocked the pathway as it stranded horizontally. The vehicles moving towards Mumbai were halted for the time being till the fire brigade team arrived at the spot and started the cleaning of smashed eggs spread on the highway. As the road had become slippery due to smashed eggs, the vehicles could not ply.   (The highway police patrol cops claim that the traffic movement towards Mumbai will restore to normalcy by 10 am.  In all, there were nine pilgrims and a driver in the vehicle, which they had hired from Haridwar for Char Dham yatra, and visited Gangotri shrine before leaving for Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district on Saturday morning.  Tehri senior superintendent of police (SSP) N S Napalchiyal said all the six injured were rushed to a Baleshwar hospital in Tehri. “Four people were killed on the spot, and among the six injured, two are critical, while the other four sustained minor injuries. The critical injured are being airlifted to Dehradun for further treatment at Jolly Grant hospital.  The deceased have been identified as Chandrakant Kelkar (61), Kunda Kelkar (50), Meena Tai (48) and Sanjay Patil (46), while the injured are Sudhankar Musre, Purnima, Archana, Satish Vasudev and driver Shahnawaz, who hails from Jwalapur in Haridwar.  Divulging details, Napalchiyal said, “The accident took place around 12:30 pm under Ghansali police station when the pilgrims were on their way to Kedarnath from Gangotri in Uttarkashi.  According to reports, locals rushed to the accident scene and launched rescue operations on their own. In the meantime, they also sounded police, which throng the spot in 30 minutes and took over rescue operations. Soon, district magistrate Sonika and Napalchiyal also reached the accident site to monitor the rescue operation.  “Family members of the deceased have been informed, and they have left for Uttarakhand, said the SSP.  Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat expressed grief over the incident, and declared a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased, Rs 50,000 to critically injured, and Rs 25,000 to those who sustained minor injuries. The victim Muhammad Yusuf, 38, a resident of Manjeshwar, Kerala, and Khaleel were returning to Manjeshwar after distributing wedding invitations in Madikeri, when the accident happened.Yusuf, who was at the wheel, lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve, said police. After falling into the gorge the car rammed into a tree before coming to a halt. While Yusuf died on the spot, Khaleel, who is severely injured, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city.A case has been registered at Konaje police station.Teenager hangs himselfA high school student, who was dejected after getting less marks hanged himself on Thursday night in Kalladi, Kuppepadavu.Yatish,15, a class 9 student, was depressed as he had not fared well in the examination and hence took the extreme step. A case has been registered at Bajpe police station. The tractor trolley overturned near Lahsoda area in which 15-year-old Priyanka died on the spot, other children were rushed to the hospital but they succumbed to injuries on their way to the hospital.The minors have been identified by the Rawanjana Dungar police station as – Shivani (8), Hasina (5), Vishakha (3), Bhavna (8) and Manish (12). They all were resident of Sawai Madhopur .The children were rushed to the hospital in ambulances and other vehicles, however, they had sustained severe head injuries as the trolley had turned turtle and smashed on them. They died while on their way to the hospital, Hari Lal, head of Lahsoda police check post told TOI over phone.Kastur Verma, station house officer of Rawanjana Dungar police station told TOI that about 25 people were injured in the accident including a dozen women. “The trolley was affixed to the tractor, near a steep turn in Lahsoda, the tractor overturned as it was driven in a high speed, the victims were all resident of nearby villages in Sawai Madhopur district and were on their way to Khanpur to attend a mass wedding which was organised by the Bairwa community, he said.The police said that parents of Priyanka, Bhavna and Manish sustained serious injuries and are currently undergoing the treatment at a district hospital. “The victims were identified later in the night, on Sunday morning we sent their bodies for the autopsy at the hospital, the police official said, adding that bodies were handed over to the families on Sunday morning.“We will register a case against the driver under section 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of IPC. The statements of the injured have also been recorded, Verma told TOI.Meanwhile, state chief minister Vasundhara Raje said on twitter that she has instructed the district administration to provide financial assistance and all possible aid to victims and their families, “Deeply disturbed by the news of the tragic road accident in Sawai Madhopur. my heart goes out to the families of the innocent victims, she said. Gaekwad Haveli police have registered a case of accidental death. Two other persons also sustained injuries. Police said Paresh Shukla, 22, a resident of India Colony, Bapunagar, was driving on the Sabarmati Riverfront road from Sunday Market to Tilak Baug on his bike. At 2 pm, a banyan tree on the side of the road fell on him. He, along with his two family members on the bike, fell on the road and suffered head and body injuries.Shukla was taken to the VS Hospital where he died during treatment at 3:45 pm mainly because of the head injuries. His two family members were released after preliminary treatment, said a police officer. (AFES) said they had received a call for rescue but by the time their team reached the spot, bystanders had removed the victims. Our team cut up the tree to open the blocked road. The traffic was halted for about half-an-hour, an Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services official said. The deceased have been identified as Manjunath, 35, and Roja, 22. The victims, who are technical trading workers at TATA Ace in Bengaluru, were travelling in the tempo to attend a friend's wedding at Ashoka Siddapura in Molakalmuru taluk.The injured Chethana, Jettinga, Shwetha, Sandhya, Naveen, Anitha, Shubham, Varuna, Akshay and the tempo driver Girish, all in the 23-25 age group, are being treated at Challakere Government Hospital. They are said to be out of danger, police said. Talaku police visited the spot. Investigation is on. Eyewitnesses said the tempo fell off the road after the collision as the driver lost control. Police have registered a case and seized the vehicle. Two passengers reportedly received serious injuries and were rushed to the Nalbari Civil Hospital.  A bike collided with a passenger vehicle causing injuries to Banesa Khatun, Solibar Rahman, Motiur Rahman and Mofikul Islam.  The tractor trolley overturned near Lahsoda area. While 15-year-old Priyanka died on the spot, the other children were rushed to the hospital. But they succumbed to injuries on their way to the hospital. The minors have been identified by the Rawanjana Dungar police station as Shivani (8), Hasina (5), Vishakha (3), Bhavna (8) and Manish (12). The accident disrupted traffic on the expressway for more than two hours. The truck driver and cleaner had sustained minor injuries in the accident.The deceased car occupants were identified as Dattatraya Deshmukh (63), his wife Bhamini (60), Rakhi Patil (40), her sister Shraddha (19) and the driver Deepak Wagasiya. The injured were Sanjay Patil (15), Rupesh Deshmukh (34), Om Deshmukh (2), Rupali Deshmukh (28) and Rahul Deshmukh (34). The police said all of them were returning to Virar after visiting the Jejuri temple near Pune. Police said both the luxury bus and the car were headed towards Mumbai. The bus driver realized that his vehicle was not accelerating optimally and asked the cleaner to check.However, he soon halted the bus in the tunnel itself on discovering that the fuel pipe had sprung a leak and with passengers spotting flames at the rear of the vehicle. The car, which was speeding behind the bus, applied the brakes but skidded on the spillage and rammed into the bus.The expressway authorities and Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) teams rushed to the spot and found the car driver trapped in his seat. The teams rushed the injured persons to private hospitals at Somatane Phata and Nigdi. The authorities covered the spillage area on the road with sand.Kamshet police said two of the five car occupants died on the spot while two others died while taking treatment at a private hospital in Nigdi. The car driver succumbed to his injuries at the other hospital at Somatane Phata. Police said two of the injured are critical.In the morning, traffic going towards Mumbai came to standstill for about an hour after the truck lost control and rammed into the slow-moving crane. The truck driver and cleaner were taken to hospital with minor wounds.The accident resulted in long queues of vehicles at the spot. According to the HSP , the authorities decided to halt vehicular movement on the Mumbai corridor after the accident as the expressway does not have diversions at the spot. A heavy duty crane took around 30 minutes to remove the wrecked truck from the spot.The truck was carrying a consignment of eggs, much of which spilt onto the road. After removing the truck wreckage, the HSP officials summoned a water tanker to wash the road clean of the spilt eggs as it could have resulted in vehicles skidding.HSP authorities said traffic was diverted towards Somatane Phata from Kiwale Phata in the morning. However, motorists did not listen to the police and preferred to travel on the expressway . Police said many motorists were heading towards Lonavla while others were going to Mumbai.  All this in the heart of the city in MP Nagar. Two of the accused have reportedly been detained. Police are looking for two others.The four allegedly smashed the windscreen of a dozen vehicles in the locality in revenge for the scratches on their car before embarking on their murderous run.The victim, 26-year-old Salman, died in hospital. His brother Sohail suffered head injuries. “He (one of the accused) used to call me `uncle'. We do not know what happened but they were drunk and started abusing and beating my younger son when he asked them about the vehicle. My son was killed in front of my eyes yet I was helpless,“ the anguished father Abdul Saeed told TOI. Saeed alleges that the four smashed Salman's head against a tanker but there is no mention of it in the FIR.  including her mother and the car driver, sustained injuries, the Daund police said. The driver was booked for negligent driving.Pokale and her family had come to Kalthan village in Indapur taluka for a holiday. The driver dropped them and returned to Mumbai. “On Saturday, Pokale called the driver to pick them up, an officer from Daund police station said.On Saturday night, the driver travelled by bus and reached Kalthan early on Sunday. “Without rest, he immediately started for Mumbai in the car, the officer said.After he lost control over the wheel, the car went off the road and crashed into the cement railings. “ Pokale died on impact, while her aged mother sustained severe injuries, the officer said.Her death came as a shock for K B Nanda Suresh Pokale, a police constable attached to the Daund police station. When he went for the inquest panchnama and other formalities in the local government hospital, he found his relatives there. “I was shocked when I came to know that I had to carry out the inquest panchanama of Shinde, a relative, Shinde told TOI.Shinde said he found it difficult to complete the formalities of the victim. Sources from Hingna police station said a vagabond woman, in her 40s, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) shortly after Sunday midnight. Police said the stretch has some CCTV cameras installed on establishments along the road, but the incident was not captured on them. Hingna police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the unknown driver.  Lasunte, who retired from defence services, was on foot when he was hit. He was rushed to Mayo Hospital with serious injuries on the head and other parts of the body. The doctors declared Lasunte dead some time later. An offence of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the unidentified driver of the killer vehicle at Wadi police station. Bela police have registered an offence against the killer truck driver after Danode was declared dead at a local hospital.  According to the police, Akash was heading home in Kharkhari village from his office near national highway 8. A pedestrian noted the registration number of the canter and informed the police. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC was registered at Bilaspur police station.“The accused is a resident of Rajasthan. We will arrest him soon, said ASI Rupesh Kumar, the investigating officer.  Raju was on his way to Delhi to deliver an order from Rajasthan. On getting information a police team reached the spot and took Raju to a nearby private hospital where he died during treatment. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC was registered at Civil Lines police station. Jitender Kumar, a resident of Sawad village in Charkhi Dadri district, and seven of his family members, including three children, were coming to Gurgaon in a black Skoda. The family was on its way to Sheetla Mata temple in the city for the mundan ceremony of their one-year-old child, Yash. But as soon as they reached near Mubarikpur village, a speeding white Swift Dzire that was coming from Farrukhnagar side rammed head on into the Skoda before crashing into its right side.Though the front air bags of both the cars opened up, all the 12 occupants of the vehicles — eight in Skoda and four in Swift Dzire — were injured badly in the accident and rushed to two different private hospitals in Jhajjar and Gurgaon by local residents and police, where four succumbed to their injuries.The cars were travelling at a high speed and the impact of the accident was such that both the vehicles were badly damaged, cops said, adding that it took them some time to bring out those trapped inside the vehicles. The deceased have been identified as Jitender’s mother Ombai (60), his wife Mamta (28) and daughter Nikunj (6), and Amit Kumar, the driver of the Swife Dzire, originally from Fogat village in Jhajjar district.The injured include Jitender, his two sons — Mannu (4) and Yash — his brother-in-law Vikram Singh, and his relative Arun Kumar, who was driving the Skoda, and three passengers of Swift Dzire — Zile Singh, Suman and Sakshi — all residents of Jahajgarh village in Jhajjar.“Arun’s condition is critical, while other family members of Jitender are out of danger. Jitender was also discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. The three injured occupants of Swift Dzire are being treated at a private hospital, said ASI Sanjeev Kumar, the investigating officer at Farrukhnagar police station.Vikram has lodged a complaint at Farrukhnagar police station. “We were on our way to Sheetla Mata temple in Gurgaon and it was around 10.30 pm that the Swift Dzire rammed into our car when we reached near Mubarikpur village. Though our car was in high speed, the accident was the result of negligence of the other car driver, he said.On the basis of Vikram’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against the deceased driver of Swift Dzire under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of IPC at Farrukhnagar police station.“We have handed over the bodies of all the four to their family members after a post-mortem. Though the air bags of both the cars opened up, four persons were killed, added ASI Kumar. The minister's son Nishith Narayana (23) and his friend died on the spot, Rao said.The car was being driven by Nishith at a high speed and allegedly in an inebriated condition, the DCP said based on preliminary investigation.  The pillar was constructed for the ongoing Metro rail project in the Jubilee Hills area, he said.Further probe was underway, he added. he car, in which they were travelling, hit a wild boar, skid and landed in Moyar River running adjacent to the road.One person survived the accident out of the four in the car which was heading towards Ooty from Bangalore. The deceased were identified as Nithin Uthappa, 28, from Bangalore, Rohith Menon, 30, from Calicut and Abishek Bellie, 30, from Ooty . Naresh, 28, who survived the accident hailed from Ooty.“The vehicle, driven by Nithin, was overspeeding. When the car was nearing Masinagudi, a wild boar hit the vehicle“, said Sivasankaran, inspector Masinagudi police station. “It took nearly three hours to recover the bodies and the car from the river,“ he added. The bodies were sent to Gudalur government hospital for postmortem. Naresh was also treated for minor injuries.  The family was travelling from Bangalore to Shirdi in a car when a truck which was overtaking the car dashed on the left side of the car pushing it towards the divider of the road. The man died on the spot and his family members are admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital.The deceased has been identified as Bhaskarrao Balshetti (resident of Kondamitta, Chittur district, Andhra Pradesh). The injured have been identified as Pravin Raja (2), Chitra Balshetti (3), Kirankumar Balshetti (55), Gitanjali Balshetti (50) and Swapnapriya Balshetti(25). They have been admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital.A Gokul Shirgaon police official said, “Bhaskarrao died on the spot while the others are severely injured.“A case has been registered against the unidentified driver. The driver did not stop the truck and ran away from the spot. We are trying to find out the whereabouts of the truck and the truck driver, he added.  The deceased has been identified as Pragati Chogale (41), a resident of Sion. She got dragged for about 50 ft before her husband applied brakes. Head constable Vasant Mhamunkar said, “Her husband rushed her to a doctor at Ghadap and later took her to Pen hospital where the doctors did a CT scan and said that her condition was critical. They advised him to take her to a super specialty hospital in Mumbai for surgery. On her way, her condition deteriorated. So he took her back to Pen hospital where she was declared brought dead. .The driver of the Xcent and another person suffered minor injuries and were rushed to a private hospital on Baner Road. They were discharged a few hours later but chose not to press charges against the driver of the sedan.According to the records of Chatushrungi police, the driver of the sedan lost control over the vehicle when one of the tyres of his car burst.The impact of the collision was such that the white Xcent turned 180 degrees and came to a stop in the opposite direction of the traffic flow.Local resident Kaushik Kochhar, who was a witness to Monday’s accident, highlighted complete lack of civic infrastructure. “This would not have happened had the divider been high enough. We urgently need speed breakers as over speeding is common on Baner Road, he said.IT professional and area resident Tushar Shah pointed to the apathy of the Pune Municipal Corporation and the traffic department towards addressing safety concerns on the busy road. “Hazards abound on Baner Road from 7am till midnight, what with drivers casually driving on the wrong side of the road, engaging in double or even triple parking and complete lack of patrolling by the police. I have lodged so many complaints, but the civic body closes them without doing anything. Even the traffic police are not always visible. We desperately need footpaths, traffic signals, traffic calming measures and stricter enforcement of traffic rules, he said.Sustained policing is the need of the hour, said Sanjeev Singh, member of the traffic committee of Baner Balewadi Residents Association, who recalled five accidents on the road since the death of the mother and daughter on Baner Road on April 17. “Only some reflectors and barricades around punctures have come up since then. The major problem is selective policing and disproportionate growth of cars. We will soon approach the authorities with a list of our demands, he said.Kamalakar Takawale, police inspector in-charge of the Chatushrungi traffic division, assured that adequate infrastructure will be in place soon. Responding to questions about the joint meeting with civic officials, he said, “The civic body will start the work soon. The height of the divider will definitely be raised. Requirement of speed breakers is being evaluated, especially near punctures. In his bail petition, driver Arnab Rao’s counsel argued non-bailable charges had been slapped against his client while a “celebrity had been charged with only bailable offences for another car crash in the city that killed a model seated next to him. Besides, Arnab’s counsel Krishnendu Mukherjee argued his client had been behind bars since March 11. However, Chinsurah district and sessions judge in-charge Jahangir Kabir rejected Arnab’s bail plea. According to police one person died on the spot while two others succumbed to injuries in the wee hours on Monday. One person who was admitted to Himmatnagar hospital was shifted to Ahmedabad after his condition deteriorated, said PSI R D Sagar of Shyamlaji police station. The deceased were coming in their car from Udaipur and lost control after its tyre burst. It jumped the divider and collided with a trailer truck coming from the opposite side. Both vehicles went off road and fell 30-feet below an overbridge. The deceased were identified as Dinesh Tehalani, resident of Vejalpur in Ahmedabad, Kanaialal Tehalani of Kubernagar in Ahmedabad while third was truck cleaner Jagdishbhai Meena of Khamka of district Bhilwada in Rajasthan.  The deceased were Lalita J Patel, 40; Rekha D Patel, 35; and Ajinkya D. Patel, 20. Dungra police station officials said a tempo carrying 35 people was going from the road joining Kocharba, Taraya and Rabada villages in Vapi. A motorcycle was going in front of the tempo. The tempo driver in an attempt to overtake the bike collided with it. The tempo overturned on the opposite lane after the collision. Ajinkya, who was riding pillion on the motorcycle, was killed along with tempo passengers Lalita and Rekha. Police sub-inspector S Dhama said, “The injured have been provided treatment. We are trying to find out how the collision took place. According to a complaint filed by Yogendra Dhawan, 37, a resident of Vejalpur, he learnt about his father’s accident when he was in Chandod where he had been to immerse the ashes of a relative. He came back and found his father in VS Hospital with multiple injuries. “He died during treatment on April 26. His relatives, say he was near the hospital gate when he was hit by a vehicle, said a police official. “He was taken to the trauma ward by an auto driver. Investigation has been initiated with the search for CCTV footage.In another incident, a senior citizen was hit by a speeding car near Naranpura railway crossing. According to a complaint filed with Naranpura police, Gunvant Patel, 49, a resident of Ranip, said that his relative Girishkumar Patel was taken to a private hospital in Nirnaynagar after he was hit by a car on April 20. He died during treatment on Sunday morning. .According to Patdi police, the accident occurred when the truck loaded with fertilizer overturned by the roadside and suddenly caught fire.Driver Lokesh and cleaner Nandram, both residents of Rajasthan, could not escape from the truck and were charred to death. There was heavy traffic jam on the highway after the accident and police took several hours to clear it.A white sedan had crashed into a lamppost and turned on its side. . But even a week after the mishap, though the police claim a thorough investigation is underway, there remains more questions than answers. Witnesses have come out and made startling claims. Vikram, they say, was indeed drinking through that night — starting around 9.30 pm and lasting till 3.30 am. When CT got in touch with those who were with the duo that night, the versions were contradictory. 1. Where were Sonika and Vikram from 2.15 am to 3.30 am (when the accident allegedly happened)?2. Why didn’t Sonika, a driver herself, not propose to drive the car if Vikram was drinking all night and allegedly driving the car at breakneck speed?3. Why was the CCTV footage from Rashbehari Avenue not taken into account to validate whether another car really came across from the other side?4. Was a blood alcohol test done on Vikram? Where are the reports?5. Why was the video of Vikram drinking not produced before the police the day after the mishap?6. Sonika stays in Hastings and Vikram, in Kasba. Where was their car heading and where were they coming from?Pranay Vaidya, who bumped into Sonika and Vikram at a nightclub around 1.30 am, remembers Vikram drinking although he stresses on visual proof to validate his claim. “I hugged Sonika and I had no idea whether Vikram was accompanying her. I met him a little later. I clearly remember one thing — Sonika wasn’t drunk that night. Another source, on terms of anonymity, shared that Sonika too was drinking that night. Was this why she wasn’t behind the wheel and trusted Vikram instead? Why didn’t she come back with her boyfriend Shaheb Bhattacherjee despite being asked to?The questions are aplenty but answers are few. Video evidences clearly show Vikram drinking that night. Witnesses have come out to say that not only was he mixing his drinks throughout the night, he was also offering his friends alcohol. Why then, is he lying? Is it the pressure of the case getting murkier or is the truth hidden beneath heaps of misinformation? Police, our sources tell us, have their hands on all the crucial evidences, including CCTV footage from all the clubs the duo visited.A friend of both Sonika and Vikram has raised a pertinent question. He asks, “Where were the two between 2.15 am and 3.30 am, when the accident allegedly took place? Were they driving around the city in the car or were they partying elsewhere? The battle, the source adds, is, far from over. “We are hoping that the authorities will delve deeper into the evidence they have laid their hands on and unearth the truth.  The two seriously injured were admitted to a hospital in Surat. Police arrested Sanjay Sharma, 49, driver of the car and seized his vehicle. Alert highway patrolling official Sunil Ramchandra ensured the accused was nabbed at Mandal toll plaza.The deceased was identified as Avadhi Rawat. She had suffered multiple injuries all over her body. Her uncle Pragnesh Rawat and grandmother Hansa Rawat are in a critical condition. They were initially admitted to a hospital in Vyara and then shifted to a private hospital in Surat. The accident victims are residents of Godhra. Hansa is mother-in-law of S K Charel, police sub-inspector of Uchhal police station, Pragnesh is the PSI’s brother-in-law while Avadhi is daughter of another brother-in-law of the police officer.Sharma, driver of an owner of an industry in Palsana, was coming from Uchhal and going toward Vyara. Sunil, who was on duty, noticed the car going at a high speed with a man stuck underneath. The man was alive and shouting for help. Sunil tried to stop the speeding car but failed. Sunil and his driver chased the car in their vehicle and found the injured man lying on road after they had crossed Songadh RTO office. Pragnesh informed them that the car had hit them and its driver was trying to escape. Sunil alerted Mandal toll plaza. Sunil then found injured Avadhi on road near Songadh Parotha House. An 108 ambulance took the injured to the hospital.Investigations revealed that the car first hit the motorcycle on which Pragnesh was going to drop his mother and Avadhi. The car hit the motorcycle near Pankhri village service road and dragged them along. Sharma did not stop the car and in an attempt to escape, continued driving. First Hansa fell off on road after being dragged some distance on the motorcycle while Pragnesh and Avadhi were still stuck underneath the four-wheeler. Later Pragnesh fell off and then the girl after they being dragged for over one and half kilometre on the road. “The accused has been arrested and our investigations begun, said S M Sadhu, PSI, Uchhal. Shahnavaz and Ajay were on their way to Amreli to appear for the GUJCET exam.Shahnavaz died on the spot while Ajay was shifted to private hospital in Amreli town.Shahnavaz’s uncle Hanif Chauhan lodged a complaint against truck driver with Amreli taluka police. Truck driver abandoned the truck at the spot and escaped. Police has launched manhunt to nab the driver. Ravi Chandra also died in the accident.  The impact of the collision was such that the front portion of the car was completely crushed. It took the police and the passersby nearly two hours to pull the victims out of the mangled remains. The policemen had to use gas cutters to cut through the car. They were taken to hospital, where the doctors declared them dead on arrival. The speedometer of the SUV was stuck at 205 kmph, but police were yet to ascertain whether the car was driven at that speed.  The duo was on its way to Nishisth's residence from Narayanguda when the car crashed into the metro pillar,deputy commissioner of police (West Zone) A Venkateshwar Rao told reporters. Though the air bags in the vehicle got deployed due to the impact, it could not save them. Residents of Gondia district, Maharashtra, these labours were heading towards Chargawan area in Jabalpur for collection of tendu leaves when their truck fell 10 feet down the bridge killing 11 on the spot. The workers had reached Jabalpur's Tilwara area in a bus and were being ferried in a mini-truck of the state forest department. The injured were referred to Jabalpur for further treatment. Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh, has directed a retired colonel and National Insurance Company Limited to pay a compensation of around Rs 14 lakh for accidental death of a 45-year-old Hari Ram Yadav who was hit by a speeding car driven by Col Arvindhan (retd). The family members of Hari Ram Yadav had filed a petition claiming compensation. It was stated in the application that Yadav worked as turner and die maker with Shine Metaltech Private Limited, Ropar and also sold boiled eggs on the roadside in the evening. His monthly income was Rs 19,000.On November 16, 2015 at 7pm, the factory bus dropped Yadav and his colleagues Ram Janak and Gulab near the factory in Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. While crossing the main road from Hallo Majra side to Sector 32 roundabout, Yadav was hit by a car driven by Col Arvindhan (retd). Yadav suffered injuries after which he was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctor declared him brought dead. The defence counsel claimed that no such accident ever took place. According to their theory, Yadav was heavily drunk and was lying injured on the road when the retired officer came to his help and took him to a hospital. He claimed the retired officer was falsely implicated in the case.The court dismissed the arguments put forth by the defence counsel. The court directed both the parties to pay Rs 13.89 lakh to the Yadav's family.  The victims – Harisha, who was riding the motorcycle – and pillion riders – Narayana Naik and Rakshith Kumar – were on their way home from a temple function when the accident took place.While Harisha and Narayana Naik died on the spot, Rakshith, a teenager, died enroute hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against the driver of the goods tempo in Bantwal traffic police station. B K Manjayya, CPI, Bantwal is investigating the case.  The car, I am certain, was coming at a high speed. Within seconds, the man (Vikram) came out of the car from the other side and dragged a lady out. He made her lie on the middle of the main road and screamed, ‘Sahajyo korun, baba’. I heard him saying, ‘Meri biwi mar gayi’, but things were happening so fast that I can’t confirm his exact words, he said. The girl, said Kalua, was bleeding from her mouth while there were no bruises or cuts to be seen. “I thought she was dead because something had hit her chest from the impact. The man was bleeding from all over and his shirt was stained. He was crying and asked me to find him a cab, recalled Kalua. “A local cabbie had stopped as four-five people gathered. We asked the taxi driver if he would take them to the hospital and he agreed, said Kalua. The rickshaw puller admitted that not a minute was lost in the process.   “The man said, ‘Hum ko Ruby le ke chaliye’ and that’s what the taxi driver did. Once they left, within minutes, the police came. They took my name as an eyewitness, but did not record my statement. In the car, I could see a few phones lying, apart from a wallet and a big handbag. I did not see the man make a single call, he said. Three days after the accident, a few men had come to enquire and they claimed to be from Sonika’s side. “They asked me what had happened that night and I explained it to them. The only thing I am scared of is a police inquiry. I am a poor man and don’t want any harm, he requested as he agreed to pose for a picture. A sweeper, who refused to be named, also corroborated the facts. “I was on the pavement that night. Suddenly, with a loud noise, a white car rammed into the concrete structure some 20 metres from me. I found the right side (driver’s side) of the vehicle smashed and a man was struggling to come out. I opened the left door and saw a severely injured lady, he recalled. When Vikram asked for a cab, the sweeper and his associates got busy. “The taxi was waiting for a passenger and I convinced him to cancel the booking, he added. When the sweeper asked Vikram to go to Shishumangal Hospital, he screamed, “Ruby chalo! Ruby chalo, to the driver. After around an hour, the driver came back and met the sweeper and said that the girl was probably dead and that he was not feeling well. “He was in a state of shock and said he wanted to go home. Since then, I haven’t seen him, he told us.1. Sahajyo korun, baba2. Meri biwi mar gayi3. Ruby chalo, Ruby chalo1. Vikram Chatterjee’s sedan, which was travelling at a high speed, hit a guard rail ahead of Lake Mall first (now bent owing to the massive impact) and turned around sideways.2. Even going sideways, the car did not slow down much though the brakes were already engaged. This indicates the car was travelling at high speed. 3. As it turned, the front of the car hit a jewellery store and the rear, the cemented bottom of a concrete structure in front of it. It is possible that owing to the rotational force, the airbags didn’t engage.  4. The explosive sound in the end of the impact was that of the car touching down on the ground after a partial rollover that also shook the entire store up.5. The impact buckled the C pillar of the car towards the inside.6. When the car finally came to a rest, it was facing towards Gariahat — the direction it was initially coming from. A mob caught the driver and thrashed him, but he managed to flee.Angry with the driver’s escape, the mob then damaged the bus and tried to set it on fire.The victim, Krishna, lived with his parents and two siblings at a rented house in Mahavir Enclave. His father is a tractor driver, while his mother works as a domestic help.Krishna was playing at home in the afternoon with his friends. His friends immediately raised an alarm and alerted Krishna’s parents. Police rushed Krishna to a hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival.The agitated family members and residents of the colony, meanwhile, caught hold of the bus driver and thrashed him. He, however, managed to escape. The mob then smashed the windows of the bus, pulled out the seats and a tyre, and set it ablaze. A senior police officer said that the mob also tried to set the bus on fire, but couldn’t find petrol. A police team reached the spot and controlled the situation. The mob then protested at the spot. Timely intervention by police prevented any traffic disruption.“A case of causing death by negligence and rash and negligent driving has been registered against the bus driver. Efforts are on to arrest him, said Surender Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (south west). “Sanjay Brahma and his friend were heading home to Dombivli after their visit to Kasarvadavli for some work when the accident took place, said a cop from Kapurbavdi police station. While both the accused in the two cases fled the scene after the accident, they have been booked for rash driving and causing grievous hurt. As per police reports, the deceased was identified as Suraj. Before the police and fire department officials could reach the spot, scores of villagers assembled and torched three dumpers one by one. The driver of the vehicle, which crushed the boy to death, managed to escape from the scene, said a police official on condition of anonymityAdditional SP, Kaushambi, Aashutosh Mishra told TOI A case has been filed. The situation is now under control and additional police teams have been deployed to defuse the tension. Mishra said. He added that Suraj, who lived in Mandar village, was cycling when he came under the wheels of a speeding dumper and died on spot. Locals said the Suraj was on his way to his house when the incident occurred. They also claimed that the driver of the errant dumper knocked down the boy after trying to overtake another vehicle.Seeing the body of the boy, the locals got into an argument with the police officials. Locals alleged that there was no check over overspeeding and drivers of heavy vehicles can be spotted violating speed limits even on busy routes. A day after AP minister P Narayana's son was killed in a road accident aused by over speeding at Jubilee Hills Road No. 36, the Hyderabad police decided to eclare the area of the mishap s being accident prone.The decision was taken to void any future accidents, onsidering the road has a urve. Jubilee Hills traffic poice said that the permissible peed on the stretch is 0kmph, but Nishith Naraya a was driving his Mercedes enz SUV at a far higher peed. Incidentally , there is no ignboard declaring the permissible speed on that stretch.“Nishith's accident is a lear cut case of over speeding nd the driver is clearly at ault. From our side too we will e writing a letter to GHMC to ut up sign boards and to de lare the area accident prone.n the past there have been no accidents at this spot, but now that an accident has taken place at the curve, we will declare it (accident prone),'' Jubilee Hills Inspector T Srinivas Reddy said.In spite of the accident, the metro pillar hit by the vehicle was not damaged, but reflective stickers on it were detached. “Reflective stickers on the pier were there prior to the accident and were visible for any motorist to see. Despite this, the motorist ended up hitting the pillar,'' a police personnel said. There were three pending e-challans against the Mercedes Benz G63 AMG car involved in the crash. Ironically, all violations were for over speeding. The SUV, which costs RS 2 crore, had clocked 154 kmph in one violation?. Kalina resident Mayassa Dsouza who was passing by on a bike and witnessed the accident said that the deer had possibly hopped out of the woodwork around Aarey Colony. “The deer fell down on the highway and the rickshaw was on its head. The deer who, for one moment, tried to stand and run away, but collapsed instantly. She seemed to be in great pain, said Dsouza.While some from the crowd extricated the autoricksaw driver who sustained injuries, a few others carted the deer aside and tried to give it some water.“The deer was severely injured. It was possibly dead by then, said Bunkim Thakkar, who volunteers for an NGO, Spreading Awareness of Reptiles and Rehabilitation Programmes (SARRP). It was taken to Sanjay Gandhi National Park at Borivli where veterinary officer, Dr Sailesh Pethe confirmed it was brought dead. .Tribunal member KD Vadane held the driver of the minibus guilty for the lifetime damage caused to the girl and ordered the owner of the bus and the insurance firm to jointly pay the cash compensation along with 8% interest.The accident not only left Sakshi Ingle maimed for life, she also lost her mother in the accident, it is learnt. When the mother-daughter duo reached the Vitawa railway under bridge, the minibus driver came in high speed and dashed into them from behind. As a result of which the girl as well as her mother were thrown away and suffered multiple grievous injuries. While her mother succumbed to the injuries the girl survived, the legal counsel representing Ingle informed the court. The insurance company, which had insured the mini bus, contested the claim made by the victim’s father and blamed girl and her mother for the accident. It claimed that there was no negligence on the part of the driver and requested the court to dismiss the claim.The judge, after hearing both the counsels pointed out that the spot panchanama reveals the width of one side road was about 35 to 40 feet. Thus, inspite of sufficient width, the driver of minibus drove to the extreme left side of the road and dashed the girl and her mother. Thus, the contention of the claimant is corroborated by the police papers on record. After scrutinizing the medical papers and all relevant documents including the legal papers the compensation was finalized by the tribunal at Rs 22.35 lakh.Hence, the judge directed the owner of the minibus Anant Waghule and the insurance company to make the payment jointly along with the interest at 8% per annum till the date of realization.  Naroda police have registered a case of hit-and-run and have started searching for the absconding driver. According to investigators, Haresh Zala, a resident of Ranasan village near Ahmedabad, had come to his friend Dashrath Thakor’s residence in Naroda. They had set off on a bike when they were hit by a car. Haresh and Dashrath fell on the road and sustained injuries. Haresh died during treatment at a hospital, said investigators. Jadhav, son of a retired assistant commissioner of police, was a Nerul resident but had been living in South Africa for some time. His wife, Pallavi, who is a dentist, aunt Shobha, her husband, Indrajit, and nephew Ninad, who too were in the car, have sustained injuries. The family was headed towards Pune. “The car rammed into the container and got stuck in its rear,“ inspector I S Patil said. The driver of a crane, which was passing by alerted police. “We went to the spot and moved the injured to a hospital in Nigdi,“ Patil said.This is the second accident inside the tunnel in the last five days. Last Sunday, five people from Virar were killed after their car skidded on an oil spill and crashed into a bus inside the tunnel.“The condition of the injured people is stable,“ a doctor said. Jadhav's aunt Shobha and her husband are Baramati residents. Police said that Jeetesh and his wife had come to India for a relative's marriage. “Cars should not be in the third lane as it is for heavy vehicles,“ an officer said. Jadhav may have attempted to overtake a vehicle in the central lane inside the tunnel, he added. Aqibuddin (20), Mehluz Alam (21), Shaisha Hussain (24) and Sabir Ali (23) were on their way to a graveyard in Park Circus from their Garden Reach homes to offer prayers on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat, the 24-hourlong festival when Muslims pray for forgiveness for the past and seek blessing for future.Police said they had reached the Dewar Garage on Taratala Road, when a truck hit them from behind and fled the spot.The four were found lying on the road in a pool of blood and the bike was few metres away from them.“None of them were wearing helmets. All of them suffered head injuries apart from having injuries to other parts of the body,“ said an officer of Taratala police station.All of them were rushed to the SSKM Hospital where Aqi buddin and Mehluz Alam were declared dead and the two others were admitted with severe injuries. They were later declared critical on Friday evening.A case in this regard was filed at the Taratala police station, which was later transferred to the fatal squad of traffic department. “We have slapped charges under IPC sections pertaining to death due to rash and negligent driving against the truck driver. We are trying to locate the vehicle. It is clear that four of them were riding the same bike, that too without helmets. The truck had hit them sideways,“ said an investigating officer. The deceased were identified as Somanna (65), his wife Narsamma (60), Somanna's sister-in-law Giddamma (55), of Gudur village in Kurnool district and Somanna's son Somesh (36) of Serilingampally and car driver Mallesh( 33) of Chevella.According to the police, a few days ago, Somanna, his wife Narsamma and Giddamma came to visit Somesh.“While they were at Somesh's house in Serilingampally , he suffered a leg fracture after he slipped and fell in the bathroom. As medical treatment in Hyderabad is a costly affair, the family wanted to take Somanna to a herbal clinic in Kurnool district and rented a car,“ Kothur SI A Srisailam told TOI. “Due to mechanical failure, the truck had come to a halt on the highway right next to the median. Heavy vehicles are not supposed to travel in the first lane and even when the truck came to a halt, its driver did not turn on the indicators,“ the SI said.As there was no street light at the accident spot, and with indicators not turned on, the Indica car driver Mallesh failed to notice the truck in time and the entire front of the car went under the truck.While Mallesh, Somanna, Narsamma and Giddamma died on the spot, Somesh succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Shadnagar.After the accident, the driver of the truck fled from the spot and police registered a case against him under sections 304-a and 337 of the IPC. Jadhav was the son of retired assistant commissioner of police Jagdish Jadhav. He was driving the car and may have lost control over the wheel and crashed into the container in the left lane of the expressway. The left lane is used by slow-moving heavy vehicles. “The impact was such that the car got wedged under the rear end of the container killing Jeetesh on the spot, Kamshet police inspector I S Patil said.This is the second accident inside the tunnel in the last five days. Last Sunday, five people from Virar were killed and five others injured, after their car skidded on diesel spilt by a luxury bus and crashed into the bus which had halted inside the tunnel. While the accident on Sunday occurred on the carriageway for vehicles moving towards Mumbai, the latest accident happened on the carriageway for vehicles going towards Pune.Jeetesh’s wife Pallavi (32), his aunt Shobha Bhosale (58) and her husband Indrajit Bhosale (68) of Baramati sustained head injuries. They are being treated in a private hospital in Nigdi. “Their condition is stable, a doctor from the hospital said. Jeetesh’s nephew Ninad Ramane (11) of Virar, who too was travelling with them, escaped with minor head injuries. He was asleep when they crashed. Jeetsh’s wife Pallavi, aunt Shobha, her husband, Indrajit, and nephew, Ninad, sustained head injuries. The driver of a crane, which was passing by the accident site in the tunnel alerted the police. Car was in the left laneJeetesh came to India for his relative’s marriage on May 7. His wife Pallavi is a dentist. “On Friday morning, they were on their way to Pune from Nerul, Patil said. An officer from the highway safety patrol (HSP) Pune told TOI that the container was plying in the third lane when the car crashed into it. “Cars should not be in the third lane as it is for heavy vehicles, the officer said. The driver of the car may have attempted to overtake a vehicle in the central lane inside the tunnel, he added. The deceased included a government school teacher and the car driver. Three other persons were admitted to Kailash Hospital in Jewar with critical head injuries and multiple fractures.  Four government school teachers — Girija Prasad (53), Pati Rampal (55), Arun Kumar Dubey (59) and Rajiv Sharma (52), all residents of Etawah — left their homes with a local driver, Dhruv (24), at the wheel to take part in a ‘Teachers’ Meet’ in Meerut.Girija Prasad was in the passenger seat. The three other teachers were sitting on the back seats. The police said that when they reached near Jewar toll plaza, a truck that was moving ahead the car suddenly applied the brakes to take a left turn. The car driver ended up ramming into the vehicle.The collision was so severe that the car was crushed and victims were trapped inside. Dhruv fell on the steering and suffered critical injuries to his abdomen and head. The smashed windshield glass shards caused severe injuries to his head. Girija Prasad also suffered critical head injuries and died on the spot.Some passersby stopped there when they noticed the accident. They informed the police, who reached the spot and took the victims to hospital. The accident also created a traffic jam at the spot. The police later removed both the vehicles and cleared the road.Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO, Jewar police station, said the truck driver and helper fled the spot after the accident. “We have registered a case against the accused and seized the truck. We are also trying to trace the truck owner, he said. Following the accident, DM B N Singh held a meeting with officials of the traffic and transport departments and directed them to conduct an enforcement drive against speeding. The DM also asked them to conduct awareness programmes. The victims are P Surya Teja, 27, Principal Software Engineer at ZeMoSo Technologies, Hyderabad, N Ravi Teja, 27, software engineer at Oracle, Hyderabad, T Rohit, 28, Software Development Engineer (SDE) 1, Amazon, Hyderabad, and Ch Kiran Kumar, 27, an engineering graduate from IIT Kharagpur, currently preparing for competitive exams.All the victims, who are alumni of IIT Kharagpur and belonged to the 2011 batch, started from Kondapur in Gachibowli in Surya Teja's Hyundai Verna (AP 16 BB 3888) car on Friday morning to attend a batchmate's wedding at Khammam.At 7.15 am, when Surya Teja was trying to overtake a DCM van from the left side, the car brushed against the van. As a result, Surya Teja lost control over the vehicle and the car crashed into the left side railing of ORR at Tukkuguda at a high speed, Pahadi Shareef inspector P Laxmikanth Reddy said.After crashing into the railing, the car overturned. All the four passengers got stuck in the vehicle and passers-by later managed to pull out three of them while the fourth got entangled in the wreckage. Police said the youngsters were not wearing seatbelts and despite the air bags opening up due to the impact of the mishap, their lives could not be saved due to the high speed crash. Police said the driver of the car was not under the influence of alcohol while the driver of the DCM van, Dayanand, cannot be blamed for the accident. “The DCM van was travelling in the third lane of the four-lane ORR, which is legitimate. It appears that the engineers tried to overtake the van from the left side,“ the Pahadesharif inspector said.Police believe the car was travelling at about 120 kmph.A case was filed under secs 304-a and 337 of IPC. After postmortem, police handed over bodies to family members. Kalpana Singh, who tied the knot with an ITBP jawan a few days ago is from Nagaria Ahir village of Agra. After the wedding when she came to her husband’s house in Nagla Lal Singh village, she found that there was no toilet and was disappointed.   When district magistrate Amit Kishore came to know about the woman’s arrival in the village after her wedding, he called her to enquire about her well-being, after which he was told by Kalpana that there was no toilet at her husband’s home.  Kishore said, I was touched by her story. After losing her dear ones in the horrific accident, she was living an adverse life after her wedding. I along with other officials went to her village and helped in constructing a toilet.  Kalpana’s husband Rammilan Singh and his family were constructing a toilet but it was incomplete and not in a usable condition.  “I was already in agony after my relatives were killed in the accident. The absence of a toilet at my in-laws’ home created more problems for me. Not having a toilet leads to inconvenience and also diseases, so I asked my in-laws to build one. But the DM called on me and I told him about the problem and asked him to get a toilet built here.  Considering Kalpana’s courage to speak against open defecation, the DM has now made her brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission for Etah district.  “We will invite her to events to share her story and inspire others to make toilets in their homes, said the DM.  According to police, a total of 11 persons including women and two children all of them were a native of Surat in Maharashtra and presently residing in Kasaragod district in Kerala were returning to their native in a car after visiting Velankanni shrine in Nagapattinam district during the wee hours on Saturday. When the car nearning K Pettai village situated along the Trichy-Karur national highways near Lalapettai in Karur district at around 7.30 in the morning, the driver of the car had reportedly lost his control over his vehicle and collided head on against a Trichy bound Taurus lorry which was coming ahead from Karur. In the impact five persons including a girl child travelling on the car were died on the spot while two others including a woman succumbed to injuries after they admitted at the Government Hospital in Kulithalai. Two persons who injured in the incident were shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy. During the course of incident, a two wheeler rider was also injured when the ill-fated car rammed the two wheeler which was coming behind the Taurus lorry, after collided head on with it. According to Kulithalai police, since all the injured were in still in a state of unconscious, they could not ascertain the name and other required information about the victims. However, further investigations are on, police said. Kulithalai police registered a case and are investigating. According to eyewitnesses, 10 passengers were travelling in the autorickshaw. Two of them escaped with minor injuries, they said.The Hinganghat police said three deceased persons, identified as Kishor Nagrale (35), Ambadas Chincholkar (40), residents of Shegaon (Kund) village, and Bhagwan Gaikwad (40), resident of Kadajana village, were workers of Gimatex Textile Company in Hinganghat. The fourth victim is auto driver Navin Moon (30).Police said the workers were headed home. The accident took place when the auto driver tried to avoid being hit by a truck coming from the wrong direction. The truck was moving towards Saguna Foods Factory near Vani Phata. As the auto tried to leave its lane, a bus carrying workers of Gimatex hit it from behind. The three-wheeler then dashed against the truck due to the impact. Shekhar and Abhijit Awari, Vipin Patil and Suraj Malode, the other Gimatex workers in the autorickshaw, and Chincholkar’s 13-year-old son Om, who had come to Hinganghat to purchase clothes, were injured in the accident. They were rushed to Hinganghat sub-district hospital and later shifted to Kasturba Hospital in Sewagram. A Sola resident has filed a complaint with Sola police saying that his car was stolen by two unidentified persons early on Saturday morning. Investigators said that Praful Vaghela, a resident of Bhuvaneshwari Society near Sola Bhagwat Vidyapith, was driving on the SG Road at 5.30am when two men in a car intercepted his vehicle on pretext of seeking directions. While he was speaking to one person, another got behind the wheel and zoomed off. Investigators said that a number of elements in Vaghela’s narration don’t add up but they have asked him to come again on Sunday with a clearer mind. In another incident, Gandhinagar police’s LCB has found a stolen car. Investigators said a car was reported stolen from Sector 25 early on May 13. When investigators visited the spot, they found a bike near the residence of the victim. The bike was reportedly used by the thief. The car was later found abandoned near GIDC in Sector 25. The Santacruz cops recently submitted a chargesheet against actor Bhagyashree, six months after a case was registered against her for allegedly ramming a biker with her car at a signal at SV Road.The chargesheet includes statements of witnesses saying it was the actor at the wheel and not her driver as she claimed.Shantanu Pawar, senior inspector of Santacruz police station, said, “We have witnesses who saw Bhagyashree driving the car. We have got the evidence to prove it. Her name was mentioned in the FIR too as the one in the driver's seat.Now we have the evidence.“The victim Mohammed Shaikh (30) said the chargesheet included call data records of the driver which allegedly showed he was not even at the spot at the time of the incident. I was thrown quite some distance. I was near my house so I immediately called my brother who came to my aid,“ he said. He further stated the actor was alone in the car at the time of the incident and he even saw her getting out from the driver's side of the vehicle. “She left without coming to my aid and I was helped by others,“ Shaikh added.The victim stated he had suffered a fractured leg and one of his fingers was almost severed. “Initially , the actor's husband visited me in hospital and requested me not to lodge a complaint. He assured me I wo uld be compensated. I asked them to take care of my medical expenses,“ he said. Shaikh said after he agreed to this, the family deposited Rs 25,000 for his medical expenses. “ After that every time I tried to get in touch with them, they did not respond. One of their assistants told me they had done a favour by giving money . I finally filed the complaint on December 19,“ Shaikh said. “I have two children. The last six months have been very difficult. I was unable to work properly and my business has suffered. I want justice,“ he said.Bhagyashree has been booked under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (causing grievous hurt). If convicted, the maximum sentence is two years' imprisonment. Fearing he might be attacked, Basanth tried to drive away and, in panic, ended up hitting two more cars. The two cars in turn crashed into four bikes. A biker, V Rama Krishna, 55, died and four others suffered injuries after those cars went over them. The bikes were completely damaged. Rama Krishna, who used to work at Kala Jyothi printing press, was riding a Pleasure bike. He was a resident of New Bakaram in Gandhi Nagar. Locals rushed to the accident spot and thrashed Basanth Kumar. The injured people — Shankar, Fakru Bose, Shaik Sule Bhasha and Shankar — were shifted to a private hospital. Madhapur inspector R Kalinga Rao said Basanth was not drunk and ended up crashing into other vehicles in a bid to escape from the accident spot. Another biker, identified as Deepak Sindhav, was also injured and was rushed to hospital. Hitesh’s father Shamji Parmar was former councillor of Wankaner municipality. Police said one of the car's tyres burst and the driver lost control of the vehicle. The victims are 30-year-old Harish, who was to get married this week, and his older sister Sheela, 34. They were going to Tamil Nadu to buy clothes for his wedding. According to the police, Sayyed Sadaq Chandpasha Sayyed (18) of Karnataka worked as a cleaner on a truck headed for Mumbai from Pune.  Shortly after crossing the tunnel, the truck’s fan-belt snapped, forcing the driver to pull over. Sayed got out and was inspecting the truck from the front, when another truck, also headed for Mumbai, crashed into the stationary truck. 	Sayyed was found under the truck’s front tyre.This was the third fatal accident this month on the expressway.Police said that the youth was the son of Sagar-based corporator Sandhya Singhai and had come to Indore six months ago for a job after completing civil engineering.He was rushed to the hospital by the locals on an ambulance, where he died during treatment four hours later.He took a turn towards Palasia, when he was hit by a speeding four-wheeler at Indraprasth Square. The impact of the accident was such that the youth was thrown off his bike and received serious injuries on his head.He was rushed to the hospital by the locals present on the spot and his family members were informed about the incident but he succumbed during treatment at the hospital some time later. Doctors claimed that he had lost a lot of blood. registered a case in the matter and were looking at CCTV footage of the area to ascertain the identity of the accused and the car number. The accused will be arrested at the earliest, said investigating officer at Tukoganj police station Pratibha Tomar.He took a turn towards Palasia, when he was hit by a speeding four-wheeler at Indraprasth Square. The impact of the accident was such that the youth was thrown off his bike and received serious injuries on his head.He was rushed to the hospital by the locals present on the spot and his family members were informed about the incident but he succumbed during treatment at the hospital some time later. Doctors claimed that he had lost a lot of blood. registered a case in the matter and were looking at CCTV footage of the area to ascertain the identity of the accused and the car number. The accused will be arrested at the earliest, said investigating officer at Tukoganj police station Pratibha Tomar. Madan Singh was on his way to a factory in Narsingpur village, where he worked, along with his nephew Nitesh Singh, 21. The two had reached the fish market in Khandsa Road, when a truck came from behind and hit Madan. Nitesh told police that after hitting Madan, the truck did not stop and one of its wheels ran over Madan. Nitesh took Madan to General Hospital in Civil Lines, from where he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital. He died during treatment.An FIR was registered at the Kherki Dhaula police station on Saturday under section 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC. A case of death due to negligence has been filed against the officials of electricity department. The groom was getting married to one Ramcharan’s granddaughter, Sharma said.As the van, a Tata 407, hit a low-hanging high-tension wire, the driver tried to speed away, said the residents. This led to uprooting of the electricity pole and the live wire fell on revelers on the truck. Due to the loud music, the truck driver did not notice the falling of live wire, eyewitnesses recalled. The high-tension wire injured five persons.Following the accident, locals immediately informed the electricity department and the power supply was snapped. Santosh, a reveler, died on the spot, while four other members of the DJ band – Sheelu (28), Mohit (19), Sukhveer (35) and Nandu (40) – were rushed to Kailash Hospital in Jewar. Mohit and Nandu were later rushed to a hospital in Delhi where Nandu expired on the way.Residents claimed the height of the wire was below the prescribed standard of 5.8 metre. However, Mahendra Pal Sharma, engineer, electricity department, Jewar denied the claim saying that the prescribed standards were followed.After the accident, a team of officials from the electricity department also reached the spot for repairs.Dr Ashi Attri, resident medical officer, Kailash Hospital, Jewar, said that Santosh, a resident of Faridabad, was brought dead in hospital.“Mohit and Nandu received serious burn injuries. We referred them to a Delhi hospital where Nandu died on the way. Mohit is being treated at Kailash Hospital, Noida as Delhi hospital did not admit him due to unavailability of bed, she said. Sheelu is undergoing treatment in ICU, while Sukhveer was later shifted to general ward after his condition improved.Speaking to TOI, Sukhveer recalled the accident. “There was loud music and a number of people in the truck. I was in the front. Suddenly the electricity pole got uprooted and wire fell on us. I got electrocuted and fainted. I do not know what happened after that. When I gained consciousness, I found myself on the hospital bed, he said. He received burn injuries on his right leg and shoulder.Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh also reached the accident spot on Sunday and interacted with locals. The Jewar police initially had not registered an FIR in the case saying they had not got any written complaint, locals said. However, Jewar MLA directed police to register a case and investigate the matter. Singh met the injured victims in the hospital and assured help.“I am trying to meet the kin of deceased to extend all possible help. It seems the incident took place due to negligence of electricity department officials. They must be held responsible for the deaths, he said.Based on the complaints of a local, Ram Gopal, an FIR for negligent conduct with respect to machinery, causing grievous hurt, and death due to negligence was registered on Sunday under sections 287, 338 and 304 (A) of IPC against unnamed officials of electricity department. Police said passersby were shocked at the sight of the car falling off an elevated road and onto a busy carriageway but quickly recovered their wits and hurried to the aid of the vehicle’s occupants.They took Shithiq Rithviya, who complained of chest pain, and the four others, including three of her relatives, in the vehicle to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Doctors there said Rithviya died at 8pm of a heart attack she suffered in the accident.The four others are receiving treatment. Doctors described their condition as stable.A police officer identified the injured occupants of the cab as Mohammad Ashad, 34, Mohammad Ajmal, 30, Nazeema Nazad Ajmal, 24, and the taxi driver, Mutheeshwaran, 32.Police said a private cab company owned the taxi.“The woman and three men in the cab were members of a family from Colombo who had been staying in Mannadi since they arrived in the city, the officer said. “The car driver was taking the four passengers back to Mannadi, after they finished shopping, when the accident took place at 4.20pm.“The front tyre of the car was flat and, as the driver approached a bend in the road near the subway, he lost control of the vehicle, he said. “The car rammed the parapet along the top of the subway wall, broke through and fell on the road below.Sharath Kumar, a witness who was riding past on a motorcycle, said the occupants of the cab were lucky that it didn’t turn turtle and land on the subway on its roof.“I joined other passersby and helped the injured people out of the vehicle and took them to the hospital, he said.The police said some of the youths were possibly drunk. All the occupants of the SUV sustained injuries.A police officer said the car was zipping when Parag Shirke (31) lost control of the wheel and collided with the truck being driven by a Dongri resident, Munzir Khan (25).The other occupants of the SUV have been identified as the birthday boy Ajay Jadhav, Mangesh Sawant (37), Siddesh Kadam (21), Ritik Kamekar (17), Ketan Rasem (23), Pratamesh Kadam (22), Vijay Jadhav (29), Harshat Jadhav (26), Ashish Sawant (32) and Megan Parep (25). All were taken to the nearby Sion hospital. Shirke, Sawant and Khan sustained fractures.Senior police inspector Balasaheb Kakkad said, “The car was speeding. We have found a 50-ft tyre track mark on the road. Also, a beer bottle was found in the car.“ Another officer said blood samples of all youths have been collected. A rash driving case has been registered. The 43-year-old Padappai resident, police said, usually rode from his house to the Tambaram railway station and took an EMU train to work. Ravichandran, who was wearing a helmet, was flung violently off the vehicle. His helmet came off and he suffered severe injuries to the head. Some employees of the company travelling in the bus took him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. He is survided by his wife and daughter. The bus driver, 40-year-old Madurantakam resident Ashokan, later surrendered at the Otteri police station near Vandalur.Police have ruled out any foul play in the death of Ravichandran. It is a clear accident. A court will remand the driver for his negligent driving, said a police officer. The accident happened when students and staff of Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan were returning in a mini bus after attending an awards function on heritage conservation at a neighbouring hotel. Eyewitnesses said the driver of the bus lost control while zipping through the road.Many people sitting on the parapet wall on the beach were injured when the bus hit them. Students inside the vehicle were also hurt. The accident brought traffic to a standstill for 30 minutes.City police commissioner T Yoganand visited the spot and said a man lost both his legs and succumbed to injuries. We have lodged a case and investigation is on to ascertain the cause of tragedy, he told TOI. In yet another celebratory firing, a youth was killed with a stray bullet on Monday late night in Firozabad. Identified as Sonu Singh, the 22-year-old youth of Morena district in Madhya Pradesh had come to attend the engagement ceremony of his cousin brother Umesh Singh in Gardenpul village of Nagla Singhi police jurisdiction. According to police, the victim suffered a thigh injury and died on his way to the hospital due to excessive bleeding. Anil Kumar station officer of Nagla Singhi said, “It was an unfortunate incident. The youth himself was supposed to get married on May 15, but succumbed to bullet injury. “An FIR has been lodged against the bride’s relative, identified as Brij Lal, who fired the shot during celebration from his licensed weapon. The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), he said. On Saturday in celebratory firing, an eight–year-old boy was killed in Ganjdundwara area of Kasganj, while 22-year-old youth was injured with bullet pellet in Uttar police jurisdiction of Firozabad district.Speaking to TOI, deputy inspector general of police for Agra range Mahesh Kumar Mishra said, “We have already instructed the station officers of all the police station to arrest the accused in minimum possible time and impound the weapon. Strict measures are being taken to ensure zero celebratory firing. In majority of the cases, the accused are found to be using country-made weapons.In last 13 months, 10 casualties have been reported in celebratory firing from Agra zone (which includes eight districts).In 2013, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court ordered that no fresh arms licenses will be issued in the state. The court, however, said such license could be issued in exceptional cases only to applicants seeking it under family heirloom policy or those who are victims of crime and have a genuine need for weapons in the opinion of the district magistrate. The court had observed that the state has a 2.13 lakh-strong police force which has 2.25 lakh weapons with it, whereas the state had issued 11.23 lakh arms licenses. The deceased Kadar Kuldunkar (43), was a resident of Trombay and was riding pillion with his friend Shahul Ahmad. Ahmad, too, sustained minor injuries, but he panicked after seeing his friend fatally injured and sped away, informed the Vashi police. The bus was taking tribal men and women from Kapura village near Vyara to Dediapada in Narmada district for the rally of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. The Congress proposes to hold a few warm-up campaigns before the launch of electioneering for the assembly polls in the state and this was one of them.“It was a mini bus and it turned on its side. One woman is hospitalized and 29 others escaped with minor injuries, said H M Chauhan, police sub-inspector, Mandvi police station.Those injured were farmers and labourers. Ramila Gamit was operated upon for a fracture in the hospital, police said. The deceased is Pandyan,36, a resident of M G Road, Bengaluru.Police said the two cars, one coming from Goa to Udupi, another from Mangaluru to Byndoor collided head on near Maravanthe. The injured have been admitted to KMC Hospital in Manipal and Chinmayi Hospital in Kundapur.  A case has been registered at Gangolli police station. The deceased, identified as Class XII student Rajbir Sharma, was coming from Dadri in a jam-packed government bus. Police said the bus was moving when the victim tried to get off near the bus stand of his village.The driver of the bus was trying to avoid stopping due to a huge crowd of students waiting at the bus stand. When Rajbir tried to get off from the front door, he fell down and got crushed under the rear tyres of the bus, police said.Angry over the incidents, students blocked the Dadri-Delhi road and asked village residents to join them. The protesters’ group swelled and torched the bus standing nearby amid slogans demanding arrest of the driver.Meanwhile, the scribes present on the spot were also manhandled and their cameras snatched.Chaotic scenes continued on Dadri-Delhi road for about three hours till Charkhi Dadri SP Sunil Dalal and Haryana Roadways workshop manager Raj Singh Ahlawat reached the spot and assured the villagers of registering a case against bus driver for negligent driving.Protesters alleged that the driver deliberately did not stop the bus at the designated village bus stand, which ultimately caused the death of student. Police took the possession of the body after the protesters retreated from the spot and shifted it to the Dadri civil hospital for postmortem.SP Dalal said police had registered for rioting, assault, causing mischief due to fire and obstructing the road against 50 persons, including 15 named. Mutheeswaran, a resident of Poonamallee, tried to cancel the trip at first but the family requested him to drop them at Mannadi. While a woman, Siddique Rithviya, 54, died of heart attack a couple of hours after the accident, the other three members sustained injuries. The cabbie fracture one of his leg and injured his head and hip.I could see my vehicle flying in the air and the passengers crying for help, but I was helpless. I could only ensure that my vehicle didn't turn upside down, said Mutheeswaran who is undergoing treatment at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He has been an accident free driver and has been driving cab for more than nine years. I always ensured that my passengers are safe. I couldn't come out of the trauma where I saw one of my passenger dying of heart attack in front of my eyes, he said.He also recalled how the family did not blame him for the accident. They helped him get admitted to hospital. Mutheeswaran, a father of two, is the sole bread earner of family. Due to the impact, Prathap, 36, a farmer from Basavataraka village in Karnataka, died on the spot and A Krishna, 35, a farmer from Kurmidda village in Yacharam, suffered critical injuries.When the mishap occurred, Prathap was standing on the road-side talking to his friend and Krishna was sitting on the bike (AP 29 BL 4173).Due to the high-speed collision, the bike and Krishan were flung into the air for about 20 feet and crashed on the road 10 feet away. Prathap was flung about 15 feet away on the roadside and he died on the spot, Maheswaram sub-inspector (SI) Bharat Naidu said.Krishna suffered critical injuries and he is coma. After hitting the victims, the Fortuner vehicle crashed into a roadside-signboard pole and turned turtle.There were three persons, including the driver, in the Fortuner vehicle. They all escaped with minor injuries. The driver was not drunk and the accident occurred due to overspeeding, the SI said. A case was registered against Ratna Kumar under sections 304-A and 337 of the IPC. He was arrested. Sources said that while the car driver killed in the accident was from Chamba district, others were from Tikkri panchayat of Nerwa. After receiving the information of accident, local people along with police launched the rescue operation as all six occupants of car had died on the spot, rescue team could only brought their bodies out of gorge.Those killed in the accident have been identified as Balwant (42) of Bajah, Bansi Lal (36) and Kanwar Pal (35) of Chenjan, Surat Singh (46) of Janog and Mohar Singh (36) of Chehad. Body of car driver was not identified till the filing of this report.Police officials said that a case has been registered to know about the reasons behind this accident and all bodies have been sent for the postmortem. A four-year-old girl, maimed for life in a road mishap involving a truck, was recently awarded around Rs 6 lakh compensation by the Thane Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT).MACT member R N Bawankar told the truck owner to compensate Darshika Patil, a resident of Khambale in Bhiwandi, upholding the claim that the mishap was due to the rash and negligent driver.Patil, represented by her father, submitted through their counsel, that at 5.40pm on March 23, 2008, she was going to a medical store, when the speeding truck proceeding from the Padgha side to Wada knocked her down and ran over her right foot. She was taken to a private hospital in Bhiwandi and thereafter admitted to KEM Hospital, Mumbai. She was also operated thrice and plastic surgery was done, the court was told.The matter was decided ex parte against the truck owner was not present. The judge pointed out that the panchanama showed that the vehicle knocked down the girl from its left. “It means the applicant almost crossed 90% portion of the vehicle. Thus, it clearly shows the negligence and rashness on the part of the truck driver. However, the insurer failed to examine the driver. The accident was not denied by the insurance company, the judge said.The FIR showed police registered an offence against the driver of on the basis of investigations, and it was clear that the accident was due to the driver’s negligence, the judge added.The medical team calculated and certified the physical impairment to 41%, which showed that the disability was not likely to improve and she would have it all her life.After scrutinizing medical papers and all documents, the compensation was finalized by the tribunal at Rs 5.65 lakh. The judge directed the truck owner, Satvindersingh Multani of Nagpur, and the insurance company to make the payment jointly, along with 7% interest per annum from August 2008.  The injured have been identified as cab driver Bijender Sharma (32), security guard Abhimanyu (30) and three techies — Sunil (25), Riya (23) and Urvashi (21). The cab, an Innova, was heading towards Faridabad from Sector 18, where the company is located, to drop the employees home. A speeding truck coming from the opposite side rammed into the Innova head-on. The collision was so severe that all five in the cab got trapped inside. Hearing the loud bang, passersby rushed to help the injured, while the truck driver fled, leaving the truck on the spot. A PCR call was immediately made. After cops reached the spot, they took the injured to a nearby private hospital. Two of them were discharged after first aid, while three others were admitted for treatment. Doctors confirmed they are now out of danger. Based on Sharma’s statement, an FIR was registered against the accused, under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 427 (causing damage) of the IPC at DLF 1 police station. “The truck was being driven on the wrong side of the road, and hit the cab head-on. We have taken the truck in custody and are trying to identify the accused, said ASI Amit Kumar, the investigating officer. Om Prakash, who is a tailor working in the Sadar Bazaar area, died on spot. The biker identified as Bahadur Singh, died on his way to the hospital. The truck driver managed to flee the spot with his vehicle. Police lodged FIRs in both the cases, but are yet to identify the accused and the vehicles. The bus, which had 32 people, flipped under the impact of the collision. The bus (UK 7 PA 2861) was en route to Delhi from Kathgodam and the truck (UP 16 DP 1807) was on its way to Alipur in Delhi from Chhapraula in GB Nagar.The victim, identified as Ramdhari Mittal (72), suffered grievous head injuries when his skull smashed against the window pane of the bus under the impact of the collision. His left leg was also broken and he lost a lot of blood. “The lone victim in the crash was travelling alone and was returning to his home in Dilshad Garden after attending a wedding. He had boarded the bus from somewhere close to Muradabad. His family members were all really worried for him. He was rushed to the District Combined Hospital in Sanjay Nagar and but succumbed to his injuries on the way, said Shivraj Singh, investigating officer, Kavi Nagar police station.The truck driver, Pradeep Kumar (30), fled the spot after the collision. The police have summoned the employer and the owner of the transport company for interrogation. The bus driver, Hosjhiyar Singh (42), a resident of Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, filed an FIR against the truck driver at the Kavi Nagar police station. The possibility of both or either of the drivers being intoxicated has been ruled out by the police.According to the police, both the bus and the truck drivers were driving at a high speed. As soon as they reached the Hapur Chungi intersection, the truck driver while trying to slide towards the left of the bus, rammed into it, following which the bus slid for some distance and fell over a small metal roundabout of the intersection leaving it completely mangled. The bus, owned by a contractor who requested anonymity, providing service for Mayoor School, Noida Sector 126, was allegedly not on duty at the time of the accident. The driver was identified as Sanjay, who fled the spot. Manish Kumar (35), a havildar in the Indian Army, said that he, along with his parents Jairam Rana (65), Rani Rana (60), wife Suman (30), two sons Arnab (2) and Aryab (1), were going from Faridabad to Shimla in their red Tata Zest. Kumar was driving, while his wife and children were sitting next to him and his parents were sitting in the back seat.Kumar said, “I was waiting at the traffic signal near Sector 15 when a speeding school bus rammed against our car. The collision was severe and my parents sitting at the back fell down from their seat and received head injuries, he said.The injured were taken to Kailash Hospital. Kumar’s mother received stitches on the head, while his father was discharged after primary treatment. A police team reached the spot and both the vehicles were taken to the police station.Initially a case of rash driving was registered and the driver was detained but later Kumar’s family withdrew the case, saying they did not wish to get into any legal hassle.“We gave a compensation amount for the car repair and medical treatment, said the contractor.“The bus was not on school duty when the incident took place, clarified Sarita Madhok, principal, Mayoor Schools. Police sources said that the group was on way to Poglu village carrying the flame of goddess Gaytrima which they had bought from Shyamlaji. Two persons died on the spot while one succumbed during treatment at a private hospital near Gandhinagar. The deceased were identified as Vijay Patel (23), Hardik Patel (24) and Shanta Patel (59), all residents of Poglu.Six other injured have been admitted to the civil hospital in Himmatnagar, said T B Rathod, police inspector, Prantij The flame that they were carrying was to be placed at Umiya Mata’s newly-built temple in the Poglu on May 8. Sam takes revenge from Anjali by airing the footage of her slapping the director on news channels. This makes Anjali upset and she calls for a press conference. When Vikram asks her to come for Aarav's engagement ceremony, she refuses to go. At the press conference, Anjali tells everyone how the director tried to misbehave with her and that he is just a pawn. It is Sam who is the main culprit. On hearing this, Sam is furious at Anjali, but Lily tries to calm him down.   While the engagement ceremony is on, Roshni receives a call from someone informing her that Sumit has met with an accident. She is shocked and informs everyone. Just when they are about to rush to the hospital, Piyush enters. Simar asks him where he had gone. He cooks up an excuse and tells her that they should all go to see Sumit. At the hospital, doctors declare Sumit's condition to be very critical. Some villagers come there and begin to describe the beast-man they had seen in front of Sumit's car and point out at Piyush. A gang of burglars about to flee after looting a Patanjali store in Sarai Rohilla was busted in a dramatic fashion by personnel of a PCR van. The incident occurred on Saturday when policemen on patrol on Rohtak Road spotted a vehicle near a store. They got suspicious and raised an alarm. At this, five or six men ran out of the shop, boarded the Maruti Esteem and tried to drive off. Police suspected that they were up to something fishy. “Seeing that they were surrounded, the youths got off and tried to run off. One of them was overpowered while the rest managed to scoot, said DCP (PCR) Monika Bhardwaj. The arrested man was identified as Vinit, a resident of Shahbad Dairy. Police recovered a watch, a cellphone, two bags of cigarettes and Rs 4,500 cash. On interrogation, Vinit said he and his gang had stolen these items from another shop prior to this burglary. An iron rod used by the burglars to break open the shutter of the shop was also seized from the car. The car was stolen from Sultanpuri, Vinit said. The PCR staff then informed Sarai Rohilla police station and handed the burglar to them. “The entire incident was captured by a CCTV camera installed in an adjoining shop. The footage went viral on social media, and the police action was appreciated by the public. The PCR personnel have been recommended for awards, Bhardwaj said. A case of trespassing was registered. As soon as he stopped, a silver Santro car rammed the bicycle, flinging the family onto the other side of the median. Police say all three sustained fatal head injuries. The car's driver was later arrested, but released on bail. The car's numberplate fell at the spot, which helped cops trace the driver. The eyewitnesses collected parts of the car which had broken off, including its numberplate, from the accident spot and handed them over to police. CCTV footage from the area was also scanned and the car's driver, Shiv Kumar, was arrested from his house. His car was seized by the cops.Sajeevan's wife Sundara was riding pillion on the bicycle and her son, Mukesh, on the rod in front of his father's seat. “I was riding my bicycle behind them when I suddenly saw them flung to the other side of the road, their heads hitting the road. The car's driver could not be caught as he was driving at a very high speed. Even though a few passers-by chased him, he fled,“ said Sharda Prashad, Sundara's elder brother who lives in the house adjacent to the family .“We rushed all three to a hospital nearby, but the boy died on the way. His parents were referred to Lok Nayak Hospital, but they succumbed to their injuries a day later. Sajeevan died at 5am and Sundara died at 3pm,“ said Prashad.“Their daughter Ridhi is too young to understand what is happening at our house these days. She was so used to staying next to her parents and brother at all times that ever since the incident took place, she has not stopped crying. It's even difficult to feed her as she's used to her mother feeding her. I wonder what the future holds for her,“ the grieving man told TOI.The family lived at a rented flat in Narela's Pocket A and were natives of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. Family members said that their bodies have been sent to their village. Prashad said that he will take custody of Ridhi.“A case of causing death due to negligence and rash and negligent driving was registered at Narela police station,“ said Rishi Pal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). The driver, who has confessed, was arrested but later released on bail, the officer said.  According to police, the cab was being driven on the wrong side of the road to avoid a traffic jam.  The boy had received multiple injuries on his head. He had suffered a skull fracture that led to haemorrhage. This had affected his brain functioning. He was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit, said a doctor working at Artemis Hospital on condition of anonymity. Vatsal's uncle Gulshan, who's children were also present in the same cab, lodged a complaint against the cab driver, Veyant, and alleged that Vatsal had to die because of his callous behaviour. Vatsal, my brother's son, lost his life for Veyant's negligence. My children were also injured in the accident but are now out of danger. Veyant should be arrested at the earliest and given stringent punishment, Gulshan said. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC has been registered against Veyant, who is absconding. Actor Vikram Chatterjee’s fans are a worried lot: they are not only distressed about his health but also apparently concerned about the fate of his character in the popular serial, ‘Ichche Nodi’, not sure if Anurag, as the protagonist is called, would be removed from the story altogether. Rumours had been doing the rounds that the serial would “send Vikram’s ‘Anurag’ abroad. “No, that can’t be done. We have just shown Anurag return from the US. How can he go abroad again? We are thinking on other lines, said creative director and scriptwriter of the serial, Leena Gangopadhyay. Some viewers thought the character would die. “That is because what happened in ‘Jol Nupur’. When actors Ronnie Chakraborty and Pijush Ganguly died, they were both in the same serial, and we showed the characters, too, died But we can’t do that here. With so much of media coverage, people know what’s happened to Vikram, Gangopadhyay said.In fact, she reportedly planned to link events from Vikram’s real life to the screenplay. “In the script, someone would break the news that Anurag had had an accident. While the car was found, he was untraceable, she said. Dialogues were being written to build the anxiety over searching Anurag. So, will the crash be shown on Rashbehari Avenue? “No, we are showing the accident on Durgapur Expressway, she said.In fact, two days after his accident, Vikram himself had apparently spoken to Gangopadhyay, expressing his apprehension if he would be able to ever work again. The question rose because he was aware of the problem of episode-banking that serial-makers faced. He knew that if an episode was not ready, there could not be a repeat telecast of an earlier episode. Unlike in other industries—where someone else could replace the person concerned in an emergency to fill in the blank—a “temporary stand-in could not take on an actor’s role. So, even Gangopadhyay hoped once Vikram recovered from the trauma of the crash, he would be able to face the camera again. Fortunately, Gangopadhyay said, ‘Icche Nodi’ had a bank of seven episodes, though usually, it was restricted to merely two. So, the serial could run for seven days till next Friday before they might face any problems, she added.  Police were informed about the accident by an eyewitness, Jalpu Ram of Irra village of Chopal subdivision and, based on his complaint, a case registered of rash driving and causing death by negligence. He said the car went off the road and fell into the gorge, killing all six occupants on the spot.Those killed in the accident have been identified as Surat Singh (40) of Vamthi village of Chopal area, Banshi Lal (36) of Chainjan village, Balwant Singh (35) of Bajah village, Kanwar Singh (45) of Chainjan village, Mahar Singh (54) of Chour village and car driver Om Prakash (26) of Dind village in Saluni tehsil of Chamba district.This was the second major accident in Nerwa area. On April 19 this year, 44 people were killed when a private bus from Uttarakhand fell into the Tons near Gumma. The ill-fated private bus (UK-16PA-0045) was coming from Vikasnagar in Uttarakhand and going to Kerar (Tiuni) in Shimla district, when the driver lost control of the wheel near Gumma. The bus skidded off the road and plunged 250 meters downhill into the Tons. The accident happened when a truck carrying wooden logs was hit by the speeding car. The wooden logs fell on the Innova car killing all the seven passengers on the spot.So far, the deceased who have been identified are Madhu and Praveen of Magadi, Sridhar from Bengaluru, Raghavendra of Shikaripur, Manjunath of Chorady. They were going to attend a wedding party in Sagar on Thursday.Source - Vijay Karnataka. Police said the youth, in their 20s, were coming from Haridwar when the accident happened. The dead have been identified as Sumit, Vaibhav and Sajan while the fourth, Charan, has suffered serious injuries.“Around 6pm, a Swift Dzire, which was being driven at a high speed, suddenly lost balance and after breaching the divider, collided with a chartered bus coming from the opposite direction  said Anil Kumar, circle officer (Sadar). “There were four occupants in the car, all youths in their twenties out of which three died on the spot while one was taken to GTB Hospital in a critical condition added Kumar.  The truck driver took a sudden left turn, hitting the front portion of the tractor. The engine fell on Devaraj, killing him on the spot. Devaraj had suffered multiple injuries in the accident, according to police. have booked a case. The victim Shiren, an employee of a hotel in Madhapur, was hit by the tanker when it was taking a U-turn. A case was registered against the driver under 304 a (rash and negligent driving causing death) of IPC. In an another incident, a motorist died after he was hit by a lorry at Kothur, on the suburbs of Cyberabad. The motorist Goraymiya, of Shadnagar, died on the spot.  the truck, carrying a wedding party, was returning from Sakrauli in Jalesar area of Etah district. All passengers were from Nagaria Paudran village, Dauki, in Agra district. The victims were returning from a ring engagement ceremony. Ram Shahaye, a victim who lost four of family members including a five-year-old nephew said, We were returning home after engagement ceremony from Nan Singh Nagla village, when the truck drove into the canal. There was no divider on the road side to prevent the vehicle from falling into it. I have lost four family members and my younger brother is also missing. Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, a senior superintendent of police said “Till now 14 casualties have been confirmed and the death toll may rise. The truck broke through the roadside railing and dived into the shallow drain which had about 2 feet of water.  “Preliminary investigation indicates that the driver, who is among the deceased, might have fallen asleep while driving since there were no signs of a collision nor any vehicle in the vicinity, he said.  Several ambulances were pressed into service immediately after the accident. Rescue operation was in full swing under the supervision of Etah district magistrate Amit Kishore at the time of filing this story. The injured have been admitted to SN Hospital in Agra and the Etah district hospital. The deceased has been identified as Rekha Sindhu, daughter of Paulraj and resident of Bengaluru. She was travelling along with her friend Rahini, while Jayakumar was behind the wheels of the car. Sindhu acted in an ad film (Ad film on Chennai Amirtha Institute), said the Natrampalli Police.They were heading towards Bengaluru from Chennai.  According to police, Jayakumar fell asleep and the car hit the centre median and overturned. Sindhu who was sitting in the front seat died on the spot, while Jayakumar and Rahini sustained serious injuries and shifted to the government hospital in the vicinity. Later, they were referred to the hospital in Vellore.  The police shifted the body of Sindhu to the GH for post-mortem. A case has been registered in this regard. The deceased was identified as Paras Ghelani, 30, a resident of Marutinagar. Ghelani was a manager with a private bank in Bhaktinagar. He was returning to his house when the accident occurred. The bus crashed into his bike from behind. He collided with the railing and suffered severe head injuries. Ghelani was scheduled to get engaged this week. He was the only son of his parents. The bus driver abandoned the vehicle and ran away from the spot. A complaint was lodged against the bus driver for rash driving. A woman lost her life after being crushed between Hampi Express and the platform at Bhanapur station on Wednesday night.Kallavva Mallappa Naregal, 50, of Tondihal village in Yelburga taluk, her brother Sharanappa Arakeri and two other women were going to attend her daughter’s house-warming ceremony in Bengaluru on Friday. As three coaches of Train No. 16591 Hubballi-Bengaluru City-Mysuru Hampi Express were stationed outside Platform 2, Kallavva could not enter the coach due to the heavy rush. She was standing on the steps of the coach. When the train started, her legs were crushed by the platform and severed from her body. Though some members of the public rushed her to the district hospital in Koppal, she succumbed around1.30am Thursday.Sharanappa Arakeri said, “Three of us boarded the coach to ensure a seat for our sister. It was dark where the general coaches were stationed. When she was just one step away from entering the coach, the train started moving and her legs were crushed between steps and the platform. We tried pulling her inside but in vain. Some passengers pulled the chain and the train stopped but by then, her legs were severed. With the help of some villagers, we took her to hospital by ambulance but she died after five hours.Neelappagouda Immadigoudra, gram panchayat member, Tondihal, said it was the duty of the guard to ensure all passengers were in the coach before giving the green signal. “Maybe he couldn’t see her as there was no light outside the platform. As the train stops for only 1 minute at Bhanapur, he may have given the green signal. How can passengers climb 5-6 ft from the ground to the coach? he said.Fakirappa Mandalgeri, a resident of Bhanapur, said this was not the first such accident at this station. “As the length of the platform is shorter than the length of passenger trains like Hampi Express, 3-4 coaches are stationed beyond the platform. Though we have requested railway officials to address this issue, they have not responded, he said.Earlier incidentShankrappa Choudki, former GP member, Bhanapur, recalled that a 21-year-old girl had died some time back on Platform No. 1 at Bhanapur station. “As the general coaches were stationed on a small bridge, she entered a sleeper coach with her mother. When the TTE insisted her to get into the general coaches, she came out her coach. A tile of the platform’s border had broken and she slipped under the train and her body was crushed. As her mother did not have her ticket, she could not get any compensation from the railways. A 25-year-old passenger, Kshitij Bhaskar, who was sitting in the front was thrown off the car due to the impact of the crash. He was rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment.Another passenger, Vishwanath Pandit, 47, also died in the accident. Other passengers suffered minor injuries. The driver of the Duster, Sumangal Datta, who was allegedly speeding, was arrested, and was produced before a magistrate on Friday. He was granted bail on Friday. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A(death by negligence) at DLF Sector 29 police station. Thirty-year-old Amit, who was sitting in the auto, suffered grievous head injuries. He was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Ashish Pandey who was sitting in the front suffered a fracture in his hand. ASI Harkesh of Kherki Dhaula police station said the car driver abandoned the Chevrolet Beat, a private taxi, and fled the spot following the crash. The driver is still at large. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 337(causing hurt by endangering life and safety of others), and 304A (death by negligence) at Kherki Dhaula police station. The 50-year-old was returning to city, along with family members by road, after immersing the ashes of her younger brother Narendra Shende in Allahabad. The last rites were performed at Ambazari ghat on Friday evening. Saunsar police said the Nagpur-based family met with the accident near Raymonds factory after one of the front wheel tyre burst. The ill-fated vehicle dashed against the footpath before turning turtle which led to the injuries. Vishakha, seated in the middle seat, sustained head injuries. Vishakha’s husband Baba, too, is a former corporator and BJP leader. The other persons who were injured in the accident were Vishakha’s 13-year-old Sharbil, sister Priti Shende (42) and niece Aditi Taman (27). It is learnt that the passers-by rushed the injured to the nearby hospital and also alerted the Saunsar police. The Madhya Pradesh police registered a case of accidental death. According to an official of Saunsar police station, an offence against the driver of the vehicle is likely to be registered for causing death due to negligence. The injured have now been shifted to a city-based hospital. The cop Jeram Jogadiya (55), a resident of Vartej, was going from Sanosara village to Bhavnagar for his duty when the accident happened. Jogadiya’s son Jatin lodged a complaint against truck driver Jignesh Baraiya, a resident of Chitra area in Bhavnagar. After the accident, truck driver surrendered before Sihor police station and he was arrested. The councillor Prakash Gida (26) was returning from Virpur along with Bhaya Bhutiya. The accident came to light on Friday morning when some passersby saw the mangled SUV on the river bed beneath the bridge. Police rushed to the spot and found that Gida had died on the spot. Bhutiya was rushed to the hospital with severe injuries. While five of them died on the spot, one died on the way to Dindigul Government Hospital. Police are on the lookout for the bus driver, Raja, of Attur in Dindigul, who fled the spot after the accident. He had joined duty only on Friday after a long medical leave.  A case has been registered with the Ambathurai police and further inquiries are underway. Saeed Nizamuddin Attar, a resident of Ganj Peth, was not wearing a helmet when the mishap took place. He is being treated at a private hospital. The Wanowrie police on Friday arrested car driver Aditya Rajesh Shetty (22), resident of Magarpatta, for rash driving.Sub-inspector Shankar Jadhav, who is investigating the case, said Shetty, who was driving the car at a high speed, lost control over the vehicle and hit Saeed’s motorcycle head on while Saeed was going towards Jhambulkar chowk.Jadhav said the impact was such that Saeed was thrown in the air and fell on the other side of the road. Passersby rushed him to a nearby private hospital. Shetty, who helped in shifting Saeed to the hospital, was arrested after Saeed’s father lodged a complaint against him on Friday.Saeed’s father Nizamuddin said, “I was in Satara when the accident took place. I came to know about it when a passerby called me from Saeed’s cellphone and told me to rush to the spot. Saeed’s condition is stable and he is slowly communicating, but he doesn’t remember how the mishap took place, he added. Dadapir Sherewad, 22, and Maulali Koraggeri, 24, residents of Cunchelim and natives of Karnataka, were traveling on a motorcycle from Cunchelim to Mapusa. As they reached the Cunchelim junction, Sherewad, who was riding the bike, lost control of the vehicle and first hit a pedestrian, Mala Kambli, 38, also a resident of Cunchelim, and then went on to hit a compound wall and an electricity pole along the road. Pillion rider Koraggeri and sustained severe injuries in the impact and succumbed at the spot. The rider escaped with minor injuries while the pedestrian suffered a leg fracture, sources. Police conducted a panchanama and registered a the case as an accident. Further investigations are in progress. The crater is six feet deep and more than four feet wide on Poonamalle high road. Metro rail officials said the accident was not caused by their work as tunnelling has been completed on the stretch. It is suspected that it could have been caused by water leak from metro water pipeline. However, metro rail officials and metro water officials are at the spot assessing the reason for the cave in. The accident has hit traffic towards Anna Nagar, Koyambedu and towards Central on the arterial road.The spot has been cordoned off. Utsav Bhasin, accused of mowing down two people while driving a BMW at high speed, has been granted relief from a sessions court on Friday, which acquitted him of the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.However, the court convicted him for a lesser charge of causing death by rash and negligent driving. Bhasin, son of a Haryana-based businessman had been slapped with a harsher charge of culpable homicide along with rash and negligent driving after he was involved in a hit-and-run case in south Delhi in 2008.Additional sessions judge Sanjeev Kumar convicted Bhasin under IPC Sections 304-A (causing death by rash and negligent act), 279 (driving rashly which could endanger human life) and 338 (causing grievous hurt).Even as the prosecution pressed for conviction under Section 304 IPC (culpable homicide) the court acquitted him saying there was lack of evidence to prosecute Bhasin on harsher charges.ASJ Kumar also noted that the witnesses did not support prosecution’s charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, for which a person can be jailed for a minimum 10 years or maximum for life.Under the Sections in which Bhasin has been convicted (304A and 338 of IPC), he could face maximum imprisonment for two years or a fine. After convicting Bhasin, the court fixed May 26 to hear arguments on quantum of sentence and has also asked the police to file a report on the economic condition of the victim’s family to decide the compensation.The court has further asked the brother and the father of the victim to remain present on the next date of hearing. It also asked Srivastava to appear before the court on the next hearing on sentencing.  They were taken to New Civil Hospital (NCH) where one succumbed to his injuries.Amrut Lakshman Gavit, 40, died during treatment while Laganiya Gavit, 50, is currently under treatment but in a critical condition.  Both the labourers were natives of Navapur in Nandurbar in Maharashtra and were engaged for levelling work of the cricket pitch. They had completed their work and chose to sleep in the ground itself when the accident happened. The truck driver did not notice the two persons while reversing the vehicle. In another accident, a 52-year-old labourer died after falling from eighth floor of an under construction textile market building under the limits of Salabatpura police station on Saturday. Rajkishore Mahato was a native of Uttar Pradesh. He lived at the construction site of Millenium 2. A Division traffic police station have registered a complaint against the car driver for the accident. Police investigators said Jainesh Shah, a resident of New CG Road, Chandkheda, has filed a complaint against a car driver, later identified as Gaurav Sharma, 26, a resident of Manekbaug, Nehrunagar for rash driving, causing hurt, endangering life or personal safety and causing damage. Sharma, who runs a management firm, was going from Pakwan Crossroads to Thaltej Crossroads when he lost control over the vehicle. The speeding car jumped into oncoming traffic and hit the two-wheelers. Sharma was also hurt in the accident and has been hospitalized, said a police investigator.The seven persons injured, who were shifted to the Sola Civil Hospital, were Manthan Rathod, 25, Gaurav Sharma, 26, Jainesh Shah, 23, Harshvardhan Raval, 27, Bhupesh Sharma, 27, Ishwar Suthar, 25, and Vikas Suthar, 21. Investigators said Raval, who has been shifted to a private hospital afterwards, is the worst off. A few victims had also got OPD treatment at Sola Civil Hospital. Including Sharma, the accused, seven were injured said an investigator. She succumbed to injuries on way to the hospital. The victim, Payal Bairwa, had come to attend a wedding near Bassi's Sambhariya village. She was crossing the road along with her father Sharavan, when a speeding pick-up, transporting DJ equipment for the same wedding function, ran over her. The girl sustained severe head injuries and was profusely bleeding, said Bhadur Singh, SHO, Shivdaspura police station, adding that an ambulance was called in to rush her to the hospital.The guests who had come to attend the wedding celebrations tried to rescue the girl. The doctors checked her heart rate and declared her brought dead. Her father was holding her in his arms when they arrived at the hospital. When the doctors broke the news of Payal's demise, he fainted, the police official who accompanied Sharavan at the hospital told TOI.The police said that a case will be registered against the accused. All efforts will be made to nab the driver of the vehicle who fled from the spot amid commotion, Singh told TOI, adding that the girl's body would be handed over to the family after autopsy. The deceased were identified as tanker driver Eknath Vishwanath Bachate (37), Ankush Raja Pandit (14) and Raju Vishwanath Pandit (33), all from Parbhani in Beed district.The injured were truck driver Saifan Shaikh (23), Indu Raju Pandit (35), Kanta Ujghar (45) and Meghnath Hanvate (36), all from Parbhani .Sub-inspector Ramchandra Chaudhari from Loni Kalbhor police station told TOI,“Shaikh had parked the truck along the road following a puncture in the front tyre. He was examining the tyre along with his brother, Mahesh Shaikh, when the tanker rammed the truck.“Chaudhari said,“Bachate and Ankush died on the spot. Pandit succumbed to injuries at a private hospital. Shaikh sustained injuries while his brother Mahesh escaped unhurt as he jumped to the other side of the road.“Milind Memane, president of Kasturi Pratisthan, a social service organization, rushed the injured to a private hospital in Loni Kalbhor after receiving calls from local residents.Both the vehicles were headed to Pune from Yavat.The accident threw vehicular traffic out of gear for quite some time. Police cleared the traffic and towed the damaged vehicles away .Inspector Bandopant Kondubehri, in charge of Loni Kalbhor Police Station, said, “The accident occurred as the truck driver did not switch on the rear red lights of the vehicle or place stones around the truck to alert other vehicles.“He said the tanker rammed into the truck because he could not see the parked vehicle.Police have booked the truck driver under the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act. The victim, Bhupesh, was taken out from the water later at night with the help of divers. While the crane blocked the pathway as it stranded horizontally. The vehicles moving towards Mumbai were halted for the time being till the fire brigade team arrived at the spot and started the cleaning of smashed eggs spread on the highway. As the road had become slippery due to smashed eggs, the vehicles could not ply.   (The highway police patrol cops claim that the traffic movement towards Mumbai will restore to normalcy by 10 am.  In all, there were nine pilgrims and a driver in the vehicle, which they had hired from Haridwar for Char Dham yatra, and visited Gangotri shrine before leaving for Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district on Saturday morning.  Tehri senior superintendent of police (SSP) N S Napalchiyal said all the six injured were rushed to a Baleshwar hospital in Tehri. “Four people were killed on the spot, and among the six injured, two are critical, while the other four sustained minor injuries. The critical injured are being airlifted to Dehradun for further treatment at Jolly Grant hospital.  The deceased have been identified as Chandrakant Kelkar (61), Kunda Kelkar (50), Meena Tai (48) and Sanjay Patil (46), while the injured are Sudhankar Musre, Purnima, Archana, Satish Vasudev and driver Shahnawaz, who hails from Jwalapur in Haridwar.  Divulging details, Napalchiyal said, “The accident took place around 12:30 pm under Ghansali police station when the pilgrims were on their way to Kedarnath from Gangotri in Uttarkashi.  According to reports, locals rushed to the accident scene and launched rescue operations on their own. In the meantime, they also sounded police, which throng the spot in 30 minutes and took over rescue operations. Soon, district magistrate Sonika and Napalchiyal also reached the accident site to monitor the rescue operation.  “Family members of the deceased have been informed, and they have left for Uttarakhand, said the SSP.  Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat expressed grief over the incident, and declared a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased, Rs 50,000 to critically injured, and Rs 25,000 to those who sustained minor injuries. The victim Muhammad Yusuf, 38, a resident of Manjeshwar, Kerala, and Khaleel were returning to Manjeshwar after distributing wedding invitations in Madikeri, when the accident happened.Yusuf, who was at the wheel, lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve, said police. After falling into the gorge the car rammed into a tree before coming to a halt. While Yusuf died on the spot, Khaleel, who is severely injured, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city.A case has been registered at Konaje police station.Teenager hangs himselfA high school student, who was dejected after getting less marks hanged himself on Thursday night in Kalladi, Kuppepadavu.Yatish,15, a class 9 student, was depressed as he had not fared well in the examination and hence took the extreme step. A case has been registered at Bajpe police station. The tractor trolley overturned near Lahsoda area in which 15-year-old Priyanka died on the spot, other children were rushed to the hospital but they succumbed to injuries on their way to the hospital.The minors have been identified by the Rawanjana Dungar police station as – Shivani (8), Hasina (5), Vishakha (3), Bhavna (8) and Manish (12). They all were resident of Sawai Madhopur .The children were rushed to the hospital in ambulances and other vehicles, however, they had sustained severe head injuries as the trolley had turned turtle and smashed on them. They died while on their way to the hospital, Hari Lal, head of Lahsoda police check post told TOI over phone.Kastur Verma, station house officer of Rawanjana Dungar police station told TOI that about 25 people were injured in the accident including a dozen women. “The trolley was affixed to the tractor, near a steep turn in Lahsoda, the tractor overturned as it was driven in a high speed, the victims were all resident of nearby villages in Sawai Madhopur district and were on their way to Khanpur to attend a mass wedding which was organised by the Bairwa community, he said.The police said that parents of Priyanka, Bhavna and Manish sustained serious injuries and are currently undergoing the treatment at a district hospital. “The victims were identified later in the night, on Sunday morning we sent their bodies for the autopsy at the hospital, the police official said, adding that bodies were handed over to the families on Sunday morning.“We will register a case against the driver under section 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of IPC. The statements of the injured have also been recorded, Verma told TOI.Meanwhile, state chief minister Vasundhara Raje said on twitter that she has instructed the district administration to provide financial assistance and all possible aid to victims and their families, “Deeply disturbed by the news of the tragic road accident in Sawai Madhopur. my heart goes out to the families of the innocent victims, she said. Gaekwad Haveli police have registered a case of accidental death. Two other persons also sustained injuries. Police said Paresh Shukla, 22, a resident of India Colony, Bapunagar, was driving on the Sabarmati Riverfront road from Sunday Market to Tilak Baug on his bike. At 2 pm, a banyan tree on the side of the road fell on him. He, along with his two family members on the bike, fell on the road and suffered head and body injuries.Shukla was taken to the VS Hospital where he died during treatment at 3:45 pm mainly because of the head injuries. His two family members were released after preliminary treatment, said a police officer. (AFES) said they had received a call for rescue but by the time their team reached the spot, bystanders had removed the victims. Our team cut up the tree to open the blocked road. The traffic was halted for about half-an-hour, an Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services official said. The deceased have been identified as Manjunath, 35, and Roja, 22. The victims, who are technical trading workers at TATA Ace in Bengaluru, were travelling in the tempo to attend a friend's wedding at Ashoka Siddapura in Molakalmuru taluk.The injured Chethana, Jettinga, Shwetha, Sandhya, Naveen, Anitha, Shubham, Varuna, Akshay and the tempo driver Girish, all in the 23-25 age group, are being treated at Challakere Government Hospital. They are said to be out of danger, police said. Talaku police visited the spot. Investigation is on. Eyewitnesses said the tempo fell off the road after the collision as the driver lost control. Police have registered a case and seized the vehicle. Two passengers reportedly received serious injuries and were rushed to the Nalbari Civil Hospital.  A bike collided with a passenger vehicle causing injuries to Banesa Khatun, Solibar Rahman, Motiur Rahman and Mofikul Islam.  The tractor trolley overturned near Lahsoda area. While 15-year-old Priyanka died on the spot, the other children were rushed to the hospital. But they succumbed to injuries on their way to the hospital. The minors have been identified by the Rawanjana Dungar police station as Shivani (8), Hasina (5), Vishakha (3), Bhavna (8) and Manish (12). The accident disrupted traffic on the expressway for more than two hours. The truck driver and cleaner had sustained minor injuries in the accident.The deceased car occupants were identified as Dattatraya Deshmukh (63), his wife Bhamini (60), Rakhi Patil (40), her sister Shraddha (19) and the driver Deepak Wagasiya. The injured were Sanjay Patil (15), Rupesh Deshmukh (34), Om Deshmukh (2), Rupali Deshmukh (28) and Rahul Deshmukh (34). The police said all of them were returning to Virar after visiting the Jejuri temple near Pune. Police said both the luxury bus and the car were headed towards Mumbai. The bus driver realized that his vehicle was not accelerating optimally and asked the cleaner to check.However, he soon halted the bus in the tunnel itself on discovering that the fuel pipe had sprung a leak and with passengers spotting flames at the rear of the vehicle. The car, which was speeding behind the bus, applied the brakes but skidded on the spillage and rammed into the bus.The expressway authorities and Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) teams rushed to the spot and found the car driver trapped in his seat. The teams rushed the injured persons to private hospitals at Somatane Phata and Nigdi. The authorities covered the spillage area on the road with sand.Kamshet police said two of the five car occupants died on the spot while two others died while taking treatment at a private hospital in Nigdi. The car driver succumbed to his injuries at the other hospital at Somatane Phata. Police said two of the injured are critical.In the morning, traffic going towards Mumbai came to standstill for about an hour after the truck lost control and rammed into the slow-moving crane. The truck driver and cleaner were taken to hospital with minor wounds.The accident resulted in long queues of vehicles at the spot. According to the HSP , the authorities decided to halt vehicular movement on the Mumbai corridor after the accident as the expressway does not have diversions at the spot. A heavy duty crane took around 30 minutes to remove the wrecked truck from the spot.The truck was carrying a consignment of eggs, much of which spilt onto the road. After removing the truck wreckage, the HSP officials summoned a water tanker to wash the road clean of the spilt eggs as it could have resulted in vehicles skidding.HSP authorities said traffic was diverted towards Somatane Phata from Kiwale Phata in the morning. However, motorists did not listen to the police and preferred to travel on the expressway . Police said many motorists were heading towards Lonavla while others were going to Mumbai.  All this in the heart of the city in MP Nagar. Two of the accused have reportedly been detained. Police are looking for two others.The four allegedly smashed the windscreen of a dozen vehicles in the locality in revenge for the scratches on their car before embarking on their murderous run.The victim, 26-year-old Salman, died in hospital. His brother Sohail suffered head injuries. “He (one of the accused) used to call me `uncle'. We do not know what happened but they were drunk and started abusing and beating my younger son when he asked them about the vehicle. My son was killed in front of my eyes yet I was helpless,“ the anguished father Abdul Saeed told TOI. Saeed alleges that the four smashed Salman's head against a tanker but there is no mention of it in the FIR.  including her mother and the car driver, sustained injuries, the Daund police said. The driver was booked for negligent driving.Pokale and her family had come to Kalthan village in Indapur taluka for a holiday. The driver dropped them and returned to Mumbai. “On Saturday, Pokale called the driver to pick them up, an officer from Daund police station said.On Saturday night, the driver travelled by bus and reached Kalthan early on Sunday. “Without rest, he immediately started for Mumbai in the car, the officer said.After he lost control over the wheel, the car went off the road and crashed into the cement railings. “ Pokale died on impact, while her aged mother sustained severe injuries, the officer said.Her death came as a shock for K B Nanda Suresh Pokale, a police constable attached to the Daund police station. When he went for the inquest panchnama and other formalities in the local government hospital, he found his relatives there. “I was shocked when I came to know that I had to carry out the inquest panchanama of Shinde, a relative, Shinde told TOI.Shinde said he found it difficult to complete the formalities of the victim. Sources from Hingna police station said a vagabond woman, in her 40s, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) shortly after Sunday midnight. Police said the stretch has some CCTV cameras installed on establishments along the road, but the incident was not captured on them. Hingna police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the unknown driver.  Lasunte, who retired from defence services, was on foot when he was hit. He was rushed to Mayo Hospital with serious injuries on the head and other parts of the body. The doctors declared Lasunte dead some time later. An offence of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the unidentified driver of the killer vehicle at Wadi police station. Bela police have registered an offence against the killer truck driver after Danode was declared dead at a local hospital.  According to the police, Akash was heading home in Kharkhari village from his office near national highway 8. A pedestrian noted the registration number of the canter and informed the police. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC was registered at Bilaspur police station.“The accused is a resident of Rajasthan. We will arrest him soon, said ASI Rupesh Kumar, the investigating officer.  Raju was on his way to Delhi to deliver an order from Rajasthan. On getting information a police team reached the spot and took Raju to a nearby private hospital where he died during treatment. An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC was registered at Civil Lines police station. Jitender Kumar, a resident of Sawad village in Charkhi Dadri district, and seven of his family members, including three children, were coming to Gurgaon in a black Skoda. The family was on its way to Sheetla Mata temple in the city for the mundan ceremony of their one-year-old child, Yash. But as soon as they reached near Mubarikpur village, a speeding white Swift Dzire that was coming from Farrukhnagar side rammed head on into the Skoda before crashing into its right side.Though the front air bags of both the cars opened up, all the 12 occupants of the vehicles — eight in Skoda and four in Swift Dzire — were injured badly in the accident and rushed to two different private hospitals in Jhajjar and Gurgaon by local residents and police, where four succumbed to their injuries.The cars were travelling at a high speed and the impact of the accident was such that both the vehicles were badly damaged, cops said, adding that it took them some time to bring out those trapped inside the vehicles. The deceased have been identified as Jitender’s mother Ombai (60), his wife Mamta (28) and daughter Nikunj (6), and Amit Kumar, the driver of the Swife Dzire, originally from Fogat village in Jhajjar district.The injured include Jitender, his two sons — Mannu (4) and Yash — his brother-in-law Vikram Singh, and his relative Arun Kumar, who was driving the Skoda, and three passengers of Swift Dzire — Zile Singh, Suman and Sakshi — all residents of Jahajgarh village in Jhajjar.“Arun’s condition is critical, while other family members of Jitender are out of danger. Jitender was also discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. The three injured occupants of Swift Dzire are being treated at a private hospital, said ASI Sanjeev Kumar, the investigating officer at Farrukhnagar police station.Vikram has lodged a complaint at Farrukhnagar police station. “We were on our way to Sheetla Mata temple in Gurgaon and it was around 10.30 pm that the Swift Dzire rammed into our car when we reached near Mubarikpur village. Though our car was in high speed, the accident was the result of negligence of the other car driver, he said.On the basis of Vikram’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against the deceased driver of Swift Dzire under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of IPC at Farrukhnagar police station.“We have handed over the bodies of all the four to their family members after a post-mortem. Though the air bags of both the cars opened up, four persons were killed, added ASI Kumar. The minister's son Nishith Narayana (23) and his friend died on the spot, Rao said.The car was being driven by Nishith at a high speed and allegedly in an inebriated condition, the DCP said based on preliminary investigation.  The pillar was constructed for the ongoing Metro rail project in the Jubilee Hills area, he said.Further probe was underway, he added. he car, in which they were travelling, hit a wild boar, skid and landed in Moyar River running adjacent to the road.One person survived the accident out of the four in the car which was heading towards Ooty from Bangalore. The deceased were identified as Nithin Uthappa, 28, from Bangalore, Rohith Menon, 30, from Calicut and Abishek Bellie, 30, from Ooty . Naresh, 28, who survived the accident hailed from Ooty.“The vehicle, driven by Nithin, was overspeeding. When the car was nearing Masinagudi, a wild boar hit the vehicle“, said Sivasankaran, inspector Masinagudi police station. “It took nearly three hours to recover the bodies and the car from the river,“ he added. The bodies were sent to Gudalur government hospital for postmortem. Naresh was also treated for minor injuries.  The family was travelling from Bangalore to Shirdi in a car when a truck which was overtaking the car dashed on the left side of the car pushing it towards the divider of the road. The man died on the spot and his family members are admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital.The deceased has been identified as Bhaskarrao Balshetti (resident of Kondamitta, Chittur district, Andhra Pradesh). The injured have been identified as Pravin Raja (2), Chitra Balshetti (3), Kirankumar Balshetti (55), Gitanjali Balshetti (50) and Swapnapriya Balshetti(25). They have been admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital.A Gokul Shirgaon police official said, “Bhaskarrao died on the spot while the others are severely injured.“A case has been registered against the unidentified driver. The driver did not stop the truck and ran away from the spot. We are trying to find out the whereabouts of the truck and the truck driver, he added.  The deceased has been identified as Pragati Chogale (41), a resident of Sion. She got dragged for about 50 ft before her husband applied brakes. Head constable Vasant Mhamunkar said, “Her husband rushed her to a doctor at Ghadap and later took her to Pen hospital where the doctors did a CT scan and said that her condition was critical. They advised him to take her to a super specialty hospital in Mumbai for surgery. On her way, her condition deteriorated. So he took her back to Pen hospital where she was declared brought dead. .The driver of the Xcent and another person suffered minor injuries and were rushed to a private hospital on Baner Road. They were discharged a few hours later but chose not to press charges against the driver of the sedan.According to the records of Chatushrungi police, the driver of the sedan lost control over the vehicle when one of the tyres of his car burst.The impact of the collision was such that the white Xcent turned 180 degrees and came to a stop in the opposite direction of the traffic flow.Local resident Kaushik Kochhar, who was a witness to Monday’s accident, highlighted complete lack of civic infrastructure. “This would not have happened had the divider been high enough. We urgently need speed breakers as over speeding is common on Baner Road, he said.IT professional and area resident Tushar Shah pointed to the apathy of the Pune Municipal Corporation and the traffic department towards addressing safety concerns on the busy road. “Hazards abound on Baner Road from 7am till midnight, what with drivers casually driving on the wrong side of the road, engaging in double or even triple parking and complete lack of patrolling by the police. I have lodged so many complaints, but the civic body closes them without doing anything. Even the traffic police are not always visible. We desperately need footpaths, traffic signals, traffic calming measures and stricter enforcement of traffic rules, he said.Sustained policing is the need of the hour, said Sanjeev Singh, member of the traffic committee of Baner Balewadi Residents Association, who recalled five accidents on the road since the death of the mother and daughter on Baner Road on April 17. “Only some reflectors and barricades around punctures have come up since then. The major problem is selective policing and disproportionate growth of cars. We will soon approach the authorities with a list of our demands, he said.Kamalakar Takawale, police inspector in-charge of the Chatushrungi traffic division, assured that adequate infrastructure will be in place soon. Responding to questions about the joint meeting with civic officials, he said, “The civic body will start the work soon. The height of the divider will definitely be raised. Requirement of speed breakers is being evaluated, especially near punctures. In his bail petition, driver Arnab Rao’s counsel argued non-bailable charges had been slapped against his client while a “celebrity had been charged with only bailable offences for another car crash in the city that killed a model seated next to him. Besides, Arnab’s counsel Krishnendu Mukherjee argued his client had been behind bars since March 11. However, Chinsurah district and sessions judge in-charge Jahangir Kabir rejected Arnab’s bail plea. According to police one person died on the spot while two others succumbed to injuries in the wee hours on Monday. One person who was admitted to Himmatnagar hospital was shifted to Ahmedabad after his condition deteriorated, said PSI R D Sagar of Shyamlaji police station. The deceased were coming in their car from Udaipur and lost control after its tyre burst. It jumped the divider and collided with a trailer truck coming from the opposite side. Both vehicles went off road and fell 30-feet below an overbridge. The deceased were identified as Dinesh Tehalani, resident of Vejalpur in Ahmedabad, Kanaialal Tehalani of Kubernagar in Ahmedabad while third was truck cleaner Jagdishbhai Meena of Khamka of district Bhilwada in Rajasthan.  The deceased were Lalita J Patel, 40; Rekha D Patel, 35; and Ajinkya D. Patel, 20. Dungra police station officials said a tempo carrying 35 people was going from the road joining Kocharba, Taraya and Rabada villages in Vapi. A motorcycle was going in front of the tempo. The tempo driver in an attempt to overtake the bike collided with it. The tempo overturned on the opposite lane after the collision. Ajinkya, who was riding pillion on the motorcycle, was killed along with tempo passengers Lalita and Rekha. Police sub-inspector S Dhama said, “The injured have been provided treatment. We are trying to find out how the collision took place. According to a complaint filed by Yogendra Dhawan, 37, a resident of Vejalpur, he learnt about his father’s accident when he was in Chandod where he had been to immerse the ashes of a relative. He came back and found his father in VS Hospital with multiple injuries. “He died during treatment on April 26. His relatives, say he was near the hospital gate when he was hit by a vehicle, said a police official. “He was taken to the trauma ward by an auto driver. Investigation has been initiated with the search for CCTV footage.In another incident, a senior citizen was hit by a speeding car near Naranpura railway crossing. According to a complaint filed with Naranpura police, Gunvant Patel, 49, a resident of Ranip, said that his relative Girishkumar Patel was taken to a private hospital in Nirnaynagar after he was hit by a car on April 20. He died during treatment on Sunday morning. .According to Patdi police, the accident occurred when the truck loaded with fertilizer overturned by the roadside and suddenly caught fire.Driver Lokesh and cleaner Nandram, both residents of Rajasthan, could not escape from the truck and were charred to death. There was heavy traffic jam on the highway after the accident and police took several hours to clear it.A white sedan had crashed into a lamppost and turned on its side. . But even a week after the mishap, though the police claim a thorough investigation is underway, there remains more questions than answers. Witnesses have come out and made startling claims. Vikram, they say, was indeed drinking through that night — starting around 9.30 pm and lasting till 3.30 am. When CT got in touch with those who were with the duo that night, the versions were contradictory. 1. Where were Sonika and Vikram from 2.15 am to 3.30 am (when the accident allegedly happened)?2. Why didn’t Sonika, a driver herself, not propose to drive the car if Vikram was drinking all night and allegedly driving the car at breakneck speed?3. Why was the CCTV footage from Rashbehari Avenue not taken into account to validate whether another car really came across from the other side?4. Was a blood alcohol test done on Vikram? Where are the reports?5. Why was the video of Vikram drinking not produced before the police the day after the mishap?6. Sonika stays in Hastings and Vikram, in Kasba. Where was their car heading and where were they coming from?Pranay Vaidya, who bumped into Sonika and Vikram at a nightclub around 1.30 am, remembers Vikram drinking although he stresses on visual proof to validate his claim. “I hugged Sonika and I had no idea whether Vikram was accompanying her. I met him a little later. I clearly remember one thing — Sonika wasn’t drunk that night. Another source, on terms of anonymity, shared that Sonika too was drinking that night. Was this why she wasn’t behind the wheel and trusted Vikram instead? Why didn’t she come back with her boyfriend Shaheb Bhattacherjee despite being asked to?The questions are aplenty but answers are few. Video evidences clearly show Vikram drinking that night. Witnesses have come out to say that not only was he mixing his drinks throughout the night, he was also offering his friends alcohol. Why then, is he lying? Is it the pressure of the case getting murkier or is the truth hidden beneath heaps of misinformation? Police, our sources tell us, have their hands on all the crucial evidences, including CCTV footage from all the clubs the duo visited.A friend of both Sonika and Vikram has raised a pertinent question. He asks, “Where were the two between 2.15 am and 3.30 am, when the accident allegedly took place? Were they driving around the city in the car or were they partying elsewhere? The battle, the source adds, is, far from over. “We are hoping that the authorities will delve deeper into the evidence they have laid their hands on and unearth the truth.  The two seriously injured were admitted to a hospital in Surat. Police arrested Sanjay Sharma, 49, driver of the car and seized his vehicle. Alert highway patrolling official Sunil Ramchandra ensured the accused was nabbed at Mandal toll plaza.The deceased was identified as Avadhi Rawat. She had suffered multiple injuries all over her body. Her uncle Pragnesh Rawat and grandmother Hansa Rawat are in a critical condition. They were initially admitted to a hospital in Vyara and then shifted to a private hospital in Surat. The accident victims are residents of Godhra. Hansa is mother-in-law of S K Charel, police sub-inspector of Uchhal police station, Pragnesh is the PSI’s brother-in-law while Avadhi is daughter of another brother-in-law of the police officer.Sharma, driver of an owner of an industry in Palsana, was coming from Uchhal and going toward Vyara. Sunil, who was on duty, noticed the car going at a high speed with a man stuck underneath. The man was alive and shouting for help. Sunil tried to stop the speeding car but failed. Sunil and his driver chased the car in their vehicle and found the injured man lying on road after they had crossed Songadh RTO office. Pragnesh informed them that the car had hit them and its driver was trying to escape. Sunil alerted Mandal toll plaza. Sunil then found injured Avadhi on road near Songadh Parotha House. An 108 ambulance took the injured to the hospital.Investigations revealed that the car first hit the motorcycle on which Pragnesh was going to drop his mother and Avadhi. The car hit the motorcycle near Pankhri village service road and dragged them along. Sharma did not stop the car and in an attempt to escape, continued driving. First Hansa fell off on road after being dragged some distance on the motorcycle while Pragnesh and Avadhi were still stuck underneath the four-wheeler. Later Pragnesh fell off and then the girl after they being dragged for over one and half kilometre on the road. “The accused has been arrested and our investigations begun, said S M Sadhu, PSI, Uchhal. Shahnavaz and Ajay were on their way to Amreli to appear for the GUJCET exam.Shahnavaz died on the spot while Ajay was shifted to private hospital in Amreli town.Shahnavaz’s uncle Hanif Chauhan lodged a complaint against truck driver with Amreli taluka police. Truck driver abandoned the truck at the spot and escaped. Police has launched manhunt to nab the driver. Ravi Chandra also died in the accident.  The impact of the collision was such that the front portion of the car was completely crushed. It took the police and the passersby nearly two hours to pull the victims out of the mangled remains. The policemen had to use gas cutters to cut through the car. They were taken to hospital, where the doctors declared them dead on arrival. The speedometer of the SUV was stuck at 205 kmph, but police were yet to ascertain whether the car was driven at that speed.  The duo was on its way to Nishisth's residence from Narayanguda when the car crashed into the metro pillar,deputy commissioner of police (West Zone) A Venkateshwar Rao told reporters. Though the air bags in the vehicle got deployed due to the impact, it could not save them. Residents of Gondia district, Maharashtra, these labours were heading towards Chargawan area in Jabalpur for collection of tendu leaves when their truck fell 10 feet down the bridge killing 11 on the spot. The workers had reached Jabalpur's Tilwara area in a bus and were being ferried in a mini-truck of the state forest department. The injured were referred to Jabalpur for further treatment. Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh, has directed a retired colonel and National Insurance Company Limited to pay a compensation of around Rs 14 lakh for accidental death of a 45-year-old Hari Ram Yadav who was hit by a speeding car driven by Col Arvindhan (retd). The family members of Hari Ram Yadav had filed a petition claiming compensation. It was stated in the application that Yadav worked as turner and die maker with Shine Metaltech Private Limited, Ropar and also sold boiled eggs on the roadside in the evening. His monthly income was Rs 19,000.On November 16, 2015 at 7pm, the factory bus dropped Yadav and his colleagues Ram Janak and Gulab near the factory in Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. While crossing the main road from Hallo Majra side to Sector 32 roundabout, Yadav was hit by a car driven by Col Arvindhan (retd). Yadav suffered injuries after which he was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctor declared him brought dead. The defence counsel claimed that no such accident ever took place. According to their theory, Yadav was heavily drunk and was lying injured on the road when the retired officer came to his help and took him to a hospital. He claimed the retired officer was falsely implicated in the case.The court dismissed the arguments put forth by the defence counsel. The court directed both the parties to pay Rs 13.89 lakh to the Yadav's family.  The victims – Harisha, who was riding the motorcycle – and pillion riders – Narayana Naik and Rakshith Kumar – were on their way home from a temple function when the accident took place.While Harisha and Narayana Naik died on the spot, Rakshith, a teenager, died enroute hospital. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against the driver of the goods tempo in Bantwal traffic police station. B K Manjayya, CPI, Bantwal is investigating the case.  The car, I am certain, was coming at a high speed. Within seconds, the man (Vikram) came out of the car from the other side and dragged a lady out. He made her lie on the middle of the main road and screamed, ‘Sahajyo korun, baba’. I heard him saying, ‘Meri biwi mar gayi’, but things were happening so fast that I can’t confirm his exact words, he said. The girl, said Kalua, was bleeding from her mouth while there were no bruises or cuts to be seen. “I thought she was dead because something had hit her chest from the impact. The man was bleeding from all over and his shirt was stained. He was crying and asked me to find him a cab, recalled Kalua. “A local cabbie had stopped as four-five people gathered. We asked the taxi driver if he would take them to the hospital and he agreed, said Kalua. The rickshaw puller admitted that not a minute was lost in the process.   “The man said, ‘Hum ko Ruby le ke chaliye’ and that’s what the taxi driver did. Once they left, within minutes, the police came. They took my name as an eyewitness, but did not record my statement. In the car, I could see a few phones lying, apart from a wallet and a big handbag. I did not see the man make a single call, he said. Three days after the accident, a few men had come to enquire and they claimed to be from Sonika’s side. “They asked me what had happened that night and I explained it to them. The only thing I am scared of is a police inquiry. I am a poor man and don’t want any harm, he requested as he agreed to pose for a picture. A sweeper, who refused to be named, also corroborated the facts. “I was on the pavement that night. Suddenly, with a loud noise, a white car rammed into the concrete structure some 20 metres from me. I found the right side (driver’s side) of the vehicle smashed and a man was struggling to come out. I opened the left door and saw a severely injured lady, he recalled. When Vikram asked for a cab, the sweeper and his associates got busy. “The taxi was waiting for a passenger and I convinced him to cancel the booking, he added. When the sweeper asked Vikram to go to Shishumangal Hospital, he screamed, “Ruby chalo! Ruby chalo, to the driver. After around an hour, the driver came back and met the sweeper and said that the girl was probably dead and that he was not feeling well. “He was in a state of shock and said he wanted to go home. Since then, I haven’t seen him, he told us.1. Sahajyo korun, baba2. Meri biwi mar gayi3. Ruby chalo, Ruby chalo1. Vikram Chatterjee’s sedan, which was travelling at a high speed, hit a guard rail ahead of Lake Mall first (now bent owing to the massive impact) and turned around sideways.2. Even going sideways, the car did not slow down much though the brakes were already engaged. This indicates the car was travelling at high speed. 3. As it turned, the front of the car hit a jewellery store and the rear, the cemented bottom of a concrete structure in front of it. It is possible that owing to the rotational force, the airbags didn’t engage.  4. The explosive sound in the end of the impact was that of the car touching down on the ground after a partial rollover that also shook the entire store up.5. The impact buckled the C pillar of the car towards the inside.6. When the car finally came to a rest, it was facing towards Gariahat — the direction it was initially coming from. A mob caught the driver and thrashed him, but he managed to flee.Angry with the driver’s escape, the mob then damaged the bus and tried to set it on fire.The victim, Krishna, lived with his parents and two siblings at a rented house in Mahavir Enclave. His father is a tractor driver, while his mother works as a domestic help.Krishna was playing at home in the afternoon with his friends. His friends immediately raised an alarm and alerted Krishna’s parents. Police rushed Krishna to a hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival.The agitated family members and residents of the colony, meanwhile, caught hold of the bus driver and thrashed him. He, however, managed to escape. The mob then smashed the windows of the bus, pulled out the seats and a tyre, and set it ablaze. A senior police officer said that the mob also tried to set the bus on fire, but couldn’t find petrol. A police team reached the spot and controlled the situation. The mob then protested at the spot. Timely intervention by police prevented any traffic disruption.“A case of causing death by negligence and rash and negligent driving has been registered against the bus driver. Efforts are on to arrest him, said Surender Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (south west). “Sanjay Brahma and his friend were heading home to Dombivli after their visit to Kasarvadavli for some work when the accident took place, said a cop from Kapurbavdi police station. While both the accused in the two cases fled the scene after the accident, they have been booked for rash driving and causing grievous hurt. As per police reports, the deceased was identified as Suraj. Before the police and fire department officials could reach the spot, scores of villagers assembled and torched three dumpers one by one. The driver of the vehicle, which crushed the boy to death, managed to escape from the scene, said a police official on condition of anonymityAdditional SP, Kaushambi, Aashutosh Mishra told TOI A case has been filed. The situation is now under control and additional police teams have been deployed to defuse the tension. Mishra said. He added that Suraj, who lived in Mandar village, was cycling when he came under the wheels of a speeding dumper and died on spot. Locals said the Suraj was on his way to his house when the incident occurred. They also claimed that the driver of the errant dumper knocked down the boy after trying to overtake another vehicle.Seeing the body of the boy, the locals got into an argument with the police officials. Locals alleged that there was no check over overspeeding and drivers of heavy vehicles can be spotted violating speed limits even on busy routes. A day after AP minister P Narayana's son was killed in a road accident aused by over speeding at Jubilee Hills Road No. 36, the Hyderabad police decided to eclare the area of the mishap s being accident prone.The decision was taken to void any future accidents, onsidering the road has a urve. Jubilee Hills traffic poice said that the permissible peed on the stretch is 0kmph, but Nishith Naraya a was driving his Mercedes enz SUV at a far higher peed. Incidentally , there is no ignboard declaring the permissible speed on that stretch.“Nishith's accident is a lear cut case of over speeding nd the driver is clearly at ault. From our side too we will e writing a letter to GHMC to ut up sign boards and to de lare the area accident prone.n the past there have been no accidents at this spot, but now that an accident has taken place at the curve, we will declare it (accident prone),'' Jubilee Hills Inspector T Srinivas Reddy said.In spite of the accident, the metro pillar hit by the vehicle was not damaged, but reflective stickers on it were detached. “Reflective stickers on the pier were there prior to the accident and were visible for any motorist to see. Despite this, the motorist ended up hitting the pillar,'' a police personnel said. There were three pending e-challans against the Mercedes Benz G63 AMG car involved in the crash. Ironically, all violations were for over speeding. The SUV, which costs RS 2 crore, had clocked 154 kmph in one violation?. Kalina resident Mayassa Dsouza who was passing by on a bike and witnessed the accident said that the deer had possibly hopped out of the woodwork around Aarey Colony. “The deer fell down on the highway and the rickshaw was on its head. The deer who, for one moment, tried to stand and run away, but collapsed instantly. She seemed to be in great pain, said Dsouza.While some from the crowd extricated the autoricksaw driver who sustained injuries, a few others carted the deer aside and tried to give it some water.“The deer was severely injured. It was possibly dead by then, said Bunkim Thakkar, who volunteers for an NGO, Spreading Awareness of Reptiles and Rehabilitation Programmes (SARRP). It was taken to Sanjay Gandhi National Park at Borivli where veterinary officer, Dr Sailesh Pethe confirmed it was brought dead. .Tribunal member KD Vadane held the driver of the minibus guilty for the lifetime damage caused to the girl and ordered the owner of the bus and the insurance firm to jointly pay the cash compensation along with 8% interest.The accident not only left Sakshi Ingle maimed for life, she also lost her mother in the accident, it is learnt. When the mother-daughter duo reached the Vitawa railway under bridge, the minibus driver came in high speed and dashed into them from behind. As a result of which the girl as well as her mother were thrown away and suffered multiple grievous injuries. While her mother succumbed to the injuries the girl survived, the legal counsel representing Ingle informed the court. The insurance company, which had insured the mini bus, contested the claim made by the victim’s father and blamed girl and her mother for the accident. It claimed that there was no negligence on the part of the driver and requested the court to dismiss the claim.The judge, after hearing both the counsels pointed out that the spot panchanama reveals the width of one side road was about 35 to 40 feet. Thus, inspite of sufficient width, the driver of minibus drove to the extreme left side of the road and dashed the girl and her mother. Thus, the contention of the claimant is corroborated by the police papers on record. After scrutinizing the medical papers and all relevant documents including the legal papers the compensation was finalized by the tribunal at Rs 22.35 lakh.Hence, the judge directed the owner of the minibus Anant Waghule and the insurance company to make the payment jointly along with the interest at 8% per annum till the date of realization.  Naroda police have registered a case of hit-and-run and have started searching for the absconding driver. According to investigators, Haresh Zala, a resident of Ranasan village near Ahmedabad, had come to his friend Dashrath Thakor’s residence in Naroda. They had set off on a bike when they were hit by a car. Haresh and Dashrath fell on the road and sustained injuries. Haresh died during treatment at a hospital, said investigators. Jadhav, son of a retired assistant commissioner of police, was a Nerul resident but had been living in South Africa for some time. His wife, Pallavi, who is a dentist, aunt Shobha, her husband, Indrajit, and nephew Ninad, who too were in the car, have sustained injuries. The family was headed towards Pune. “The car rammed into the container and got stuck in its rear,“ inspector I S Patil said. The driver of a crane, which was passing by alerted police. “We went to the spot and moved the injured to a hospital in Nigdi,“ Patil said.This is the second accident inside the tunnel in the last five days. Last Sunday, five people from Virar were killed after their car skidded on an oil spill and crashed into a bus inside the tunnel.“The condition of the injured people is stable,“ a doctor said. Jadhav's aunt Shobha and her husband are Baramati residents. Police said that Jeetesh and his wife had come to India for a relative's marriage. “Cars should not be in the third lane as it is for heavy vehicles,“ an officer said. Jadhav may have attempted to overtake a vehicle in the central lane inside the tunnel, he added. Aqibuddin (20), Mehluz Alam (21), Shaisha Hussain (24) and Sabir Ali (23) were on their way to a graveyard in Park Circus from their Garden Reach homes to offer prayers on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat, the 24-hourlong festival when Muslims pray for forgiveness for the past and seek blessing for future.Police said they had reached the Dewar Garage on Taratala Road, when a truck hit them from behind and fled the spot.The four were found lying on the road in a pool of blood and the bike was few metres away from them.“None of them were wearing helmets. All of them suffered head injuries apart from having injuries to other parts of the body,“ said an officer of Taratala police station.All of them were rushed to the SSKM Hospital where Aqi buddin and Mehluz Alam were declared dead and the two others were admitted with severe injuries. They were later declared critical on Friday evening.A case in this regard was filed at the Taratala police station, which was later transferred to the fatal squad of traffic department. “We have slapped charges under IPC sections pertaining to death due to rash and negligent driving against the truck driver. We are trying to locate the vehicle. It is clear that four of them were riding the same bike, that too without helmets. The truck had hit them sideways,“ said an investigating officer. The deceased were identified as Somanna (65), his wife Narsamma (60), Somanna's sister-in-law Giddamma (55), of Gudur village in Kurnool district and Somanna's son Somesh (36) of Serilingampally and car driver Mallesh( 33) of Chevella.According to the police, a few days ago, Somanna, his wife Narsamma and Giddamma came to visit Somesh.“While they were at Somesh's house in Serilingampally , he suffered a leg fracture after he slipped and fell in the bathroom. As medical treatment in Hyderabad is a costly affair, the family wanted to take Somanna to a herbal clinic in Kurnool district and rented a car,“ Kothur SI A Srisailam told TOI. “Due to mechanical failure, the truck had come to a halt on the highway right next to the median. Heavy vehicles are not supposed to travel in the first lane and even when the truck came to a halt, its driver did not turn on the indicators,“ the SI said.As there was no street light at the accident spot, and with indicators not turned on, the Indica car driver Mallesh failed to notice the truck in time and the entire front of the car went under the truck.While Mallesh, Somanna, Narsamma and Giddamma died on the spot, Somesh succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Shadnagar.After the accident, the driver of the truck fled from the spot and police registered a case against him under sections 304-a and 337 of the IPC. Jadhav was the son of retired assistant commissioner of police Jagdish Jadhav. He was driving the car and may have lost control over the wheel and crashed into the container in the left lane of the expressway. The left lane is used by slow-moving heavy vehicles. “The impact was such that the car got wedged under the rear end of the container killing Jeetesh on the spot, Kamshet police inspector I S Patil said.This is the second accident inside the tunnel in the last five days. Last Sunday, five people from Virar were killed and five others injured, after their car skidded on diesel spilt by a luxury bus and crashed into the bus which had halted inside the tunnel. While the accident on Sunday occurred on the carriageway for vehicles moving towards Mumbai, the latest accident happened on the carriageway for vehicles going towards Pune.Jeetesh’s wife Pallavi (32), his aunt Shobha Bhosale (58) and her husband Indrajit Bhosale (68) of Baramati sustained head injuries. They are being treated in a private hospital in Nigdi. “Their condition is stable, a doctor from the hospital said. Jeetesh’s nephew Ninad Ramane (11) of Virar, who too was travelling with them, escaped with minor head injuries. He was asleep when they crashed. Jeetsh’s wife Pallavi, aunt Shobha, her husband, Indrajit, and nephew, Ninad, sustained head injuries. The driver of a crane, which was passing by the accident site in the tunnel alerted the police. Car was in the left laneJeetesh came to India for his relative’s marriage on May 7. His wife Pallavi is a dentist. “On Friday morning, they were on their way to Pune from Nerul, Patil said. An officer from the highway safety patrol (HSP) Pune told TOI that the container was plying in the third lane when the car crashed into it. “Cars should not be in the third lane as it is for heavy vehicles, the officer said. The driver of the car may have attempted to overtake a vehicle in the central lane inside the tunnel, he added. The deceased included a government school teacher and the car driver. Three other persons were admitted to Kailash Hospital in Jewar with critical head injuries and multiple fractures.  Four government school teachers — Girija Prasad (53), Pati Rampal (55), Arun Kumar Dubey (59) and Rajiv Sharma (52), all residents of Etawah — left their homes with a local driver, Dhruv (24), at the wheel to take part in a ‘Teachers’ Meet’ in Meerut.Girija Prasad was in the passenger seat. The three other teachers were sitting on the back seats. The police said that when they reached near Jewar toll plaza, a truck that was moving ahead the car suddenly applied the brakes to take a left turn. The car driver ended up ramming into the vehicle.The collision was so severe that the car was crushed and victims were trapped inside. Dhruv fell on the steering and suffered critical injuries to his abdomen and head. The smashed windshield glass shards caused severe injuries to his head. Girija Prasad also suffered critical head injuries and died on the spot.Some passersby stopped there when they noticed the accident. They informed the police, who reached the spot and took the victims to hospital. The accident also created a traffic jam at the spot. The police later removed both the vehicles and cleared the road.Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO, Jewar police station, said the truck driver and helper fled the spot after the accident. “We have registered a case against the accused and seized the truck. We are also trying to trace the truck owner, he said. Following the accident, DM B N Singh held a meeting with officials of the traffic and transport departments and directed them to conduct an enforcement drive against speeding. The DM also asked them to conduct awareness programmes. The victims are P Surya Teja, 27, Principal Software Engineer at ZeMoSo Technologies, Hyderabad, N Ravi Teja, 27, software engineer at Oracle, Hyderabad, T Rohit, 28, Software Development Engineer (SDE) 1, Amazon, Hyderabad, and Ch Kiran Kumar, 27, an engineering graduate from IIT Kharagpur, currently preparing for competitive exams.All the victims, who are alumni of IIT Kharagpur and belonged to the 2011 batch, started from Kondapur in Gachibowli in Surya Teja's Hyundai Verna (AP 16 BB 3888) car on Friday morning to attend a batchmate's wedding at Khammam.At 7.15 am, when Surya Teja was trying to overtake a DCM van from the left side, the car brushed against the van. As a result, Surya Teja lost control over the vehicle and the car crashed into the left side railing of ORR at Tukkuguda at a high speed, Pahadi Shareef inspector P Laxmikanth Reddy said.After crashing into the railing, the car overturned. All the four passengers got stuck in the vehicle and passers-by later managed to pull out three of them while the fourth got entangled in the wreckage. Police said the youngsters were not wearing seatbelts and despite the air bags opening up due to the impact of the mishap, their lives could not be saved due to the high speed crash. Police said the driver of the car was not under the influence of alcohol while the driver of the DCM van, Dayanand, cannot be blamed for the accident. “The DCM van was travelling in the third lane of the four-lane ORR, which is legitimate. It appears that the engineers tried to overtake the van from the left side,“ the Pahadesharif inspector said.Police believe the car was travelling at about 120 kmph.A case was filed under secs 304-a and 337 of IPC. After postmortem, police handed over bodies to family members. Kalpana Singh, who tied the knot with an ITBP jawan a few days ago is from Nagaria Ahir village of Agra. After the wedding when she came to her husband’s house in Nagla Lal Singh village, she found that there was no toilet and was disappointed.   When district magistrate Amit Kishore came to know about the woman’s arrival in the village after her wedding, he called her to enquire about her well-being, after which he was told by Kalpana that there was no toilet at her husband’s home.  Kishore said, I was touched by her story. After losing her dear ones in the horrific accident, she was living an adverse life after her wedding. I along with other officials went to her village and helped in constructing a toilet.  Kalpana’s husband Rammilan Singh and his family were constructing a toilet but it was incomplete and not in a usable condition.  “I was already in agony after my relatives were killed in the accident. The absence of a toilet at my in-laws’ home created more problems for me. Not having a toilet leads to inconvenience and also diseases, so I asked my in-laws to build one. But the DM called on me and I told him about the problem and asked him to get a toilet built here.  Considering Kalpana’s courage to speak against open defecation, the DM has now made her brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission for Etah district.  “We will invite her to events to share her story and inspire others to make toilets in their homes, said the DM.  According to police, a total of 11 persons including women and two children all of them were a native of Surat in Maharashtra and presently residing in Kasaragod district in Kerala were returning to their native in a car after visiting Velankanni shrine in Nagapattinam district during the wee hours on Saturday. When the car nearning K Pettai village situated along the Trichy-Karur national highways near Lalapettai in Karur district at around 7.30 in the morning, the driver of the car had reportedly lost his control over his vehicle and collided head on against a Trichy bound Taurus lorry which was coming ahead from Karur. In the impact five persons including a girl child travelling on the car were died on the spot while two others including a woman succumbed to injuries after they admitted at the Government Hospital in Kulithalai. Two persons who injured in the incident were shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy. During the course of incident, a two wheeler rider was also injured when the ill-fated car rammed the two wheeler which was coming behind the Taurus lorry, after collided head on with it. According to Kulithalai police, since all the injured were in still in a state of unconscious, they could not ascertain the name and other required information about the victims. However, further investigations are on, police said. Kulithalai police registered a case and are investigating. According to eyewitnesses, 10 passengers were travelling in the autorickshaw. Two of them escaped with minor injuries, they said.The Hinganghat police said three deceased persons, identified as Kishor Nagrale (35), Ambadas Chincholkar (40), residents of Shegaon (Kund) village, and Bhagwan Gaikwad (40), resident of Kadajana village, were workers of Gimatex Textile Company in Hinganghat. The fourth victim is auto driver Navin Moon (30).Police said the workers were headed home. The accident took place when the auto driver tried to avoid being hit by a truck coming from the wrong direction. The truck was moving towards Saguna Foods Factory near Vani Phata. As the auto tried to leave its lane, a bus carrying workers of Gimatex hit it from behind. The three-wheeler then dashed against the truck due to the impact. Shekhar and Abhijit Awari, Vipin Patil and Suraj Malode, the other Gimatex workers in the autorickshaw, and Chincholkar’s 13-year-old son Om, who had come to Hinganghat to purchase clothes, were injured in the accident. They were rushed to Hinganghat sub-district hospital and later shifted to Kasturba Hospital in Sewagram. A Sola resident has filed a complaint with Sola police saying that his car was stolen by two unidentified persons early on Saturday morning. Investigators said that Praful Vaghela, a resident of Bhuvaneshwari Society near Sola Bhagwat Vidyapith, was driving on the SG Road at 5.30am when two men in a car intercepted his vehicle on pretext of seeking directions. While he was speaking to one person, another got behind the wheel and zoomed off. Investigators said that a number of elements in Vaghela’s narration don’t add up but they have asked him to come again on Sunday with a clearer mind. In another incident, Gandhinagar police’s LCB has found a stolen car. Investigators said a car was reported stolen from Sector 25 early on May 13. When investigators visited the spot, they found a bike near the residence of the victim. The bike was reportedly used by the thief. The car was later found abandoned near GIDC in Sector 25. The Santacruz cops recently submitted a chargesheet against actor Bhagyashree, six months after a case was registered against her for allegedly ramming a biker with her car at a signal at SV Road.The chargesheet includes statements of witnesses saying it was the actor at the wheel and not her driver as she claimed.Shantanu Pawar, senior inspector of Santacruz police station, said, “We have witnesses who saw Bhagyashree driving the car. We have got the evidence to prove it. Her name was mentioned in the FIR too as the one in the driver's seat.Now we have the evidence.“The victim Mohammed Shaikh (30) said the chargesheet included call data records of the driver which allegedly showed he was not even at the spot at the time of the incident. I was thrown quite some distance. I was near my house so I immediately called my brother who came to my aid,“ he said. He further stated the actor was alone in the car at the time of the incident and he even saw her getting out from the driver's side of the vehicle. “She left without coming to my aid and I was helped by others,“ Shaikh added.The victim stated he had suffered a fractured leg and one of his fingers was almost severed. “Initially , the actor's husband visited me in hospital and requested me not to lodge a complaint. He assured me I wo uld be compensated. I asked them to take care of my medical expenses,“ he said. Shaikh said after he agreed to this, the family deposited Rs 25,000 for his medical expenses. “ After that every time I tried to get in touch with them, they did not respond. One of their assistants told me they had done a favour by giving money . I finally filed the complaint on December 19,“ Shaikh said. “I have two children. The last six months have been very difficult. I was unable to work properly and my business has suffered. I want justice,“ he said.Bhagyashree has been booked under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (causing grievous hurt). If convicted, the maximum sentence is two years' imprisonment. Fearing he might be attacked, Basanth tried to drive away and, in panic, ended up hitting two more cars. The two cars in turn crashed into four bikes. A biker, V Rama Krishna, 55, died and four others suffered injuries after those cars went over them. The bikes were completely damaged. Rama Krishna, who used to work at Kala Jyothi printing press, was riding a Pleasure bike. He was a resident of New Bakaram in Gandhi Nagar. Locals rushed to the accident spot and thrashed Basanth Kumar. The injured people — Shankar, Fakru Bose, Shaik Sule Bhasha and Shankar — were shifted to a private hospital. Madhapur inspector R Kalinga Rao said Basanth was not drunk and ended up crashing into other vehicles in a bid to escape from the accident spot. Another biker, identified as Deepak Sindhav, was also injured and was rushed to hospital. Hitesh’s father Shamji Parmar was former councillor of Wankaner municipality. Police said one of the car's tyres burst and the driver lost control of the vehicle. The victims are 30-year-old Harish, who was to get married this week, and his older sister Sheela, 34. They were going to Tamil Nadu to buy clothes for his wedding.  The driver, Nagaraj, fled the spot but was later tracked down and taken into custody, police said.The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal has awarded a compensation of Rs 40.56 lakh to the family of a deceased driver of the irrigation department in Mohali.  MACT has directed the National Insurance Company and the owner and the driver of the canter to pay the compensation jointly. Gurdev's wife Swaran Kaur (54), and sons Narinder Singh (31), Beant Singh (28), Gurpreet Singh (27), and mother Pathani Kaur (75), residents of Rajpura in Patiala had filed a claim petition against the driver of the canter, Gurwinder Singh, owner, Jasbir Singh and the insurer National Insurance Company. The canter driver sped away.  Beant Singh, who was behind Gurdev's motor cycle at a distance of about 40-50 yards at the time of accident was a witness to the accident. In the petition the driver and the owner of the canter stated no accident took place due to rash and negligent driving. Further they said that Gurdev was driving his motorcycle aggressively without obeying the traffic rules. As per the petition, both the motorcycles, the deceased and his son's collided with each other. Gurwinder also added that he took the deceased to the hospital, but he was falsely implicated in the case to extract money from him. The insurance company also denied any accident took place due to the offending vehicle the driver of which did not have a valid licence. If at all any accident happened the deceased had to be blamed for it. Court after hearing the arguments of both sides decided the case in favour of the family of Gurdev Singh. After the accident, the truck driver jumped off his vehicle and fled.  Manoj was pedalling his cycle while Mukesh sat pillion. The truck took a sharp turn near the JJ colony and, while trying to avoid hitting another vehicle, hit the cycle from behind and ran over the teens. Manoj and Mukesh were dragged a few metres before the truck driver could stop his vehicle.A mob soon gathered at the spot and damaged the truck. The police soon arrived and dragged the two teenagers from underneath the truck. While Manoj was found dead, Mukesh was taken to a local hospital. He was referred to JPN hospital where his condition is said to be extremely critical.Manoj and Mukesh were neighbours and studied at the same government school. Manoj had bought the cycle from a friend a few days ago. Manoj’s body will be handed over to his family after autopsy on Monday.“A case under IPC Section 304A has been registered against the truck driver. A manhunt has been launched to arrest him, said a senior police officer.The truck is registered in Haryana was being used at a local construction site. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the area to identify the driver. They have also contacted the truck owner and asked for the driver’s details. Police have also recorded eyewitness accounts to get a description of the driver.According to traffic police estimates, almost 50% of road deaths involve cyclists and pedestrians. Police officers said that lack of cycling tracks or facilities across the city leads to such casualties.This year, 433 people have died in road accidents till April end. Police said the rate of fatal accidents is lower than last year. Till April 30 last year 528 fatal accidents had been recorded. In 2016, the total number of road accidents was 1,548. One person was killed on the spot while the other four died during treatment in a hospital. The deceased were Kamuben Solanki, 62; Naresh Solanki, 35; Lata Solanki, 32; Krishna Naresh Solanki, 10; and Usha Solanki, 48. The injured- Jayaben alias Manjula Solanki, 45; Jyoti Solanki, 19; and Manav Solanki, 5- are under treatment at a hospital in Valsad. Naresh, who was driving the car lost control over the vehicle, and crashed into the divider of the bridge. The front portion of the car was badly damaged in the accident. The family had left Mumbai on Saturday night and reached Pardi at around 7am on Sunday. The family had reached megapolis earlier in the day. Jaya Solanki is a cleaning worker of Surat Municipal Corporation. They lived in Chhapra Bhatha locality of Amroli area in the city. “It seems the driver lost control over the vehicle and crashed it into the divider. There were eight people in the car and five died in the accident, police said. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has announced san ex-gratia compensation of Rs 1 lakh to next of kin to the deceased. The urban development minister has ordered an inquiry into the death of three people, who were allegedly killed in an accident in Jaspur on Saturday, after their kin suspected it to be culpable homicide. A policeman allegedly hurled his baton at Iqrar, following which Shafiq lost control over the bike that rammed into a truck coming from the opposite direction.  The driver of the truck also lost control over the vehicle and it overturned at the roadside. Iqrar and the truck driver died on the spot, while Shafiq succumbed to injuries on his way to hospital.  The incident caused tension in the area with a group of villagers from Babarkheda assembled at the spot and chocked the road. Senior police officials, including senior superintendent of police (SSP) US Nagar Sadanand Date, who rushed the spot, tried to calm people. Three policemen, including trainee sub-inspector Jagmohan and constables Pravesh Kumar and Naresh Deenwal, were suspended by the SSP. The deceased were identified as Md Arshad (8), a class I student from Kandukur, and Sairam (28), a taxi driver from Balmur in Nagar Kurnool district. Sairam was heading to the city on his Yamaha FZ bike from Achampet. At 9.30 am, Sairam, while trying to overtake the bus from right, hit the Skoda at high speed. The bike's front wheel shattered the car's windshield and landed on Arshad who was sitting in the front passenger seat, crushing his throat. Sairam ended up on the car roof, while pillion rider Mogalaiah fell on the road. Sairam died on the spot, while Arshad was declared brought dead at a local hospital. A case under IPC section 304-A and 337 has been registered, Kadthal SI G Srikanth said. The family was heading to their farm house in Kadthal from their home at Kandukur when things went horribly wrong.As they were passing Kadthal in the city’s outskirts, 28-year-old Sairam, who was coming to the city on Yamaha FZ bike from Achampet, decided to overtake an RTC bus. In his bid to race ahead, Sairam took to the extreme right of the road and crashed into the oncoming Skoda sedan at high speed.The bike driven by Sairam, a taxi driver from Balmur in Nagar Kurnool district, hit the vehicle with the front wheel piercing through the wind-shield of the car. Arshad who was sitting in the front seat lost his life on impact with the wheel. With the collision, Sairam was catapulted on top of the sedan, killing him on the spot. Pillion rider Mogalaiah fell on the road. His condition is said to be critical, Kadthal SI G Srikanth said, adding that since he is unconscious, police are yet to get more details. While Arshad was declared brought dead at a local hospital, Jani Miya, who was driving the car, and Arshad’s father suffered minor injuries. After the accident, traffic on the Hyderabad-Srisailam highway came to halt for about an hour. Police quickly reached the spot and pulled both the vehicles to the side enabling the traffic to move freely again. “The bike rider Sairam was at complete fault. He was not wearing a helmet and while trying to overtake the bus, he went to the extreme right of the road without checking if any vehicle was coming from the opposite direction, the SI said.Police registered a case under section 304-a and 337 of the IPC. The bodies were shifted to mortuary for post-mortem examination. The victims were returning after paying obeisance at the Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh, when their Kwid rammed a truck going towards Hoshiarpur. Such was the impact of the collision that while the car was flung in the air before hitting the fuel tank of the truck, which caught fire, a police official said.Passersby and villagers extricated the injured and the dead from the mangled vehicle. A fire brigade was also pressed into service to control the fire which had engulfed the truck.While Surinder Kumar (37) and his eight-month-old niece Shivika sustained serious injuries and were referred to Ludhiana hopital, his wife Reena (32), two sons Raghav (10) and Madhav (8) died in the accident. Reena’s younger sister Shikha (30) and her husband Rajpal (32) were also killed in the accident. The truck driver, who fled immediately after the accident, was later arrested by Phagwara police. Phagwara police station SHO Lakhbir Singh said they had registered a case under Aection 304 A of IPC against Raj Kishor Yadav, the truck driver. The SHO said that the victims had left Ludhiana around midnight and reached Chintpurni in the wee hours. They had started their return journey before 6am. The passengers of the ill-fated tempo traveller were relatives and were on their way to the famous tourist destination of Manali.  Two people, identified as Jagrati and Jai Raman, died on the spot, while N Kumar succumbed to his injuries on way to a hospital, police said.The injured were rushed to the Bilaspur hospital and were stated to be out of danger. The cause of the accident was not immediately known, but some passengers said that the driver failed to negotiate a sharp curve and lost control of the vehicle. Police have registered a case. With summer here, there have been 12 incidents of cars catching fire in Chandigarh alone since April. Though no one has been injured in the incidents, experts warn owners that a lot of times the cars “selfcombust“ when unauthorized mechanics leave connections in the engine loose.According to them, delayed servicing of cars is another reason behind such fires, as hose pipes, diesel pipes and rubber tubes develop cracks, says Gurpreet Singh, who is a senior manager in a car company. “These things happen when electrical short circuits, engine oil leak and unauthorized service dealers wash the engine and leave loose connections,“ he says. Nobody was injured. There were total 17 passengers in the vehicle. Sources said that after crossing Swarghat, when the vehicle reached Chharol, the driver lost control while negotiating a turn and the vehicle fell into the gorge.Those injured in the accident were taken to Bilaspur hospital for treatment. While Gayatri (23) and Raman Kumar (53) died on the spot, K N Kumar (45) succumbed to his injuries while being taken to hospital, police said.Police have registered a case and started investigation into the matter. In this case too accident had resulted after driver dozed off during driving at around 6.10am. The victim has been identified as Sai Kumar Adluri from Tirupathi in Andhra Pradesh. According to Indian Students Association, Sai Kumar was a native of Sri Bomma Rajapuram (SBR Puram), near Puttoor, Tirupathi. He was supposed to graduate in December 2017.Friends of Sai Kumar described him as an ‘energetic cricketer’ who represented the university in the mid western championships. “He was a compassionate human being who never thought twice before lending his hand for help. He was a brother everyone wished they had, the Indian Students Association said. It has also set up a gofundme page to raise funds to help send the body back to India.“Sai and a friend was involved in an accident near the university earlier this morning and the other vehicle involved was the one at fault. Sai was not lucky enough to make it. The other person in his car is currently undergoing treatment in a trauma center in Rockford, the association said.The matter also brought to the notice of Telangana state NRI affairs minister K T Rama Rao for help in sending the body to India. A similar appeal was also made to Andhra Pradesh chief minster N Chandrababu Naidu and Union Minister for External Affairs minister Sushma Swaraj for help. The condition of 12 passengers was serious. Of the five persons who were killed, two were minors, the police said.Rajauli Police Station Officer-in-charge Awadhesh Kumar said the driver had lost control over the vehicle. He may have dozed off at the wheel, he added. Most of the injured were labourers who were returning home due to closure of brink kilns in view of the monsoons, Kumar said.All the victims were residents of Budhaul Beldariya village under Town Police Station of Nawada district. The identity of the deceased, however, has not been ascertained so far, he said.The twelve passengers, who sustained serious injuries, have been referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital.The rest of the injured have been admitted to Rajauli sub-divisional hospital and Nawada Sadar hospital, he said.

